model, ‘‘liability’’ is a normally distributed underlying variable comprising all genetic and environmental factors relevant to the etiology. All people have some liability, but they do not become affected unless it exceeds a certain critical value (the threshold). Males have a lower threshold for brain dysfunction and less significant genetic ‘‘liabilities’’ are required for a male to end up with ASD. Females require a higher ‘‘dose’’ of genes to be impacted. Therefore, as the less frequently affected sex, females would have more severe deficits, more affected relatives, and more relatives with more severe deficits (Tsai & Beisler, 1983; Tsai et al., 1981). Tsai and colleagues (Tsai & Beisler, 1983; Tsai et al., 1981) found support for this model in that females with ASD had more first- degree relatives with cognitive/language impairments or ASD. Further research has not yielded any support for this liability/threshold model. Risk for the broader autism phenotype has not been found to be higher in relatives of females with ASD (Bolton et al., 1994; Pickles et al., 2000; Szatmari et al., 2000). Boutin, Maziade, Merette, and Mondor (1997) did find more first degree relatives with cognitive disabilities (i.e., language delay, ID, learning disabilities) in females with ASD and an IQ less than 50; however, in their sample, there were no gender differences in IQ. Pickles et al. (2000) did not find significant differences in severity or type of phenotypic expression in relatives by sex of the proband, nor were there elevated rates on the mother’s side for male probands. In a recent large sample study, Goin-Kochel et al. (2007) did not find an increased risk of ASD in relatives of females with ASD, even when controlling for IQ. Goin-Kochel et al. (2007) concluded that there is a lack of support for increased genetic liability for ASD in families of females with ASD, and that earlier findings (Tsai & Beisler, 1983; Tsai et al., 1981) may be accounted for by lower IQ in females. Consistent with Goin-Kochel et al. (2007) conclusion, in multiplex families, Banach et al. (2009) did not find a significant difference in IQ, severity of autistic symptoms, or adaptive social and communication functioning in male siblings with ASD based on whether they had a brother versus a sister with ASD (with the exception of slightly greater socialization impairment in males with ASD with a brother with ASD, which is in the opposite direction predicted by the model). 5.2. Genetic variability Wing (1981) applied Taylor and Ounsted’s (1972) hypotheses about gender differences in developmental disabilities to ASD. Taylor and Ounsted (1972) reported that a wide variety of disabilities (e.g., Down’s syndrome, cerebral palsy) have a higher prevalence in males, and those with the lower prevalence tend to be more severely impaired. Taylor and Ounsted (1972) also hypothesized that higher prevalence and less severity in males may be due to their greater genetic variation in the majority of measurable characteristics. Wing (1981) noted that, therefore, more males may show mild ASD features as a direct result of