in developing repetitive routines involving manipulating objects. Wing (1981) did point out data available at the time which were inconsistent with this hypothesis. First, differences in visuospatial and language skills are seen in adolescence in comparison to ASD symptoms emerging in infancy/early childhood. Second, although speech and language disorders are more frequent in boys, developmental receptive language disorder, which has overlap with ASD, is low in frequency for both boys and girls. Finally, higher functioning individuals with ASD score higher on verbal versus performance subtests on the Wechsler intelligence scales (though this may reflect rote memory and not understanding), and have poor coordination. Wing (1981) also noted that it has not been fully established that typically developing girls have superior social interaction skills. Gillberg, Winnerga ˚ rd, and Wahlstro ¨ m (1984) expanded upon Wing’s (1981) hypothesis, suggesting a link between autism and the sex chromosomes based on a case with XYY syndrome. These authors (1984, p. 353) cited Wing (1981) as hypothesizing that autism ‘‘might result from the pathological exaggeration of typically male behavioral traits.’’ Visuospatial skills and some ASD symptoms (e.g., insistence on sameness, restricted interests, preoccupation with objects) could be characterized as exaggerations of male characteristics (Kopp & Gillberg, 1992). Conversely, communication impairments in ASD could be characterized as an exaggeration of male language development (i.e., slower and more vulnerable), and social communication impairments as an area typically less well-developed in males (Kopp & Gillberg, 1992). In line with Wing’s (1981) association of autism with too much male or insufficient female influence, Gillberg et al. (1984) cited possible links between autism and excess male chromosome material (as in XYY syndrome or long Y chromosomes) or a deficiency in female chromosome material (as in fragile X and Lesch-Nyhan). Two researchers evaluated Wing’s (1981) hypothesis. Lord et al.’s (1982) results varied depending on whether IQ was accounted for. Boys did perform better than girls on eye–hand integration and perceptual tasks, though not when IQ was covaried. These skills may reflect developmental differences for both genders, as older children did better on these tasks (Lord et al., 1982). Regardless of IQ, boys exhibited more unusual visual responses than girls. When IQ was covaried, boys also demonstrated more routinized and stereotypic play. Finally, no gender differences emerged in affect and relating to people, nor receptive language with IQ covaried (Lord et al., 1982). With IQ above 60, McLennan et al. (1993) found males did show greater deficits in early social and communicative behavior, though this was reversed in older age groups. No gender differences were found in restricted, repetitive, stereotyped behaviors (McLennan et al., 1993), contrasting Lord et al.’s (1982) findings. 5.4. Lateralization of brain function Lord et al. (1982) derived hypotheses based on available research at the time relating to brain function in the general population. As reported by Lord et al. (1982), language deficits have been attributed to left hemisphere damage, while perceptual skills suggest intact right hemispheric functioning. Females have been shown to have less lateralization (i.e., smaller