significant gender differences in those with high functioning autism or Asperger’s on the child (Auyeung, Baron-Cohen, Wheelwright, & Allison, 2008), adolescent (Baron-Cohen, Hoekstra, Knickmeyer, & Wheelwright, 2006), and adult (Baron- Cohen et al., 2001) versions. This same pattern held in a sample aged 19–63 months on the Quantitative CHecklist for Autism in Toddlers (Q-CHAT; Allison et al., 2008). Males in the control group scored higher than females; however, not in the ASD sample (Allison et al., 2008). To summarize, in general population studies, males have been found to have more autistic traits; however, in subgroups of participants with ASD, no gender differences have been found. 4.3. Age Much of the literature in ASD has involved children and adolescents rather than adults (Matson & Neal, 2009). Regarding epidemiology, in Fombonne’s (2003, 2005, 2007) reviews, only one study included participants up to age 27 years (Ritvo et al., 1989). In studies of gender differences in ASD symptoms, most research has been on children, with some emphasis on toddlers (Allison et al., 2008; Carter et al., 2007) and adults (Baron-Cohen et al., 2001; Hus et al., 2007; McLennan et al., 1993; Pilowsky et al., 1998). Several studies of gender differences in ASD either matched groups on age or entered age as a covariate. Studies concerning onset, course, and adult outcome are examined below. 4.3.1. Onset Few studies have addressed gender differences in onset of ASD, and this issue has not been examined systematically as the focus in any studies. In participants with ASD and an IQ above 60, McLennan et al. (1993) reported that males were more likely to have an overall onset and play deficits before age 3 as measured by the ADI, while no gender differences were found in the frequency of onset of language and social deficits before age 3. Volkmar et al. (1993) noted no significant gender differences on age of onset. 4.3.2. Course Only one study directly addressed gender differences in the course of ASD. McLennan et al. (1993) found different patterns of gender differences based on time period of ADI items (i.e., early items prior to age 5, current items, and ‘‘ever’’ items). Females showed less impairment in early social and communicative behavior (e.g., social imitative play, seeking and offering comfort). However, this pattern was reversed in older children, adolescents, and adults, where females showed greater social impairments in friendships. The researchers posed several possible explanations for these differences. For older females, peer activities are heavily dependent on social interests and communication, whereas males may have social options (e.g., spectator sports) which are less verbal and interactive. In addition, females in the study had often been in special education settings predominately with males, thus limiting opportunities to meet females with common interests. Finally, items on the ADI are different across time period. For example, early items focus on brief, responsive interactions with caregivers (e.g., imitation and social play), while later items focus on friendships and initiation of social behavior such as greeting and sharing activities (McLennan et