differences in left–right hemisphere function). Applied to ASD, in females, more extensive bilateral brain damage would be needed to produce specific deficits as in ASD. In contrast, for males, more limited dysfunction or smaller lesions in a specific area may be sufficient to result in ASD. Lord et al.’s (1982) reported that their findings of lower performance across cognitive measures in females could be interpreted as evidence for more extensive brain dysfunction in females with ASD. 5.5. Extreme male brain (EMB) theory Baron-Cohen and Hammer (1997) argued that autism is an extreme form of the male pattern of neurodevelopment. They linked this idea back to Asperger’s (1944) writings describing how ‘‘the autistic personality is an extreme variant of male intelligence’’ (Frith, 1991, p. 84). The EMB theory proposes that ASD is an extreme form of the male brain, where empathizing is hypo-developed and systemizing is hyper-developed (Baron-Cohen, 2002). Empathizing (folk psychology) refers to a drive or capacity to identify others’ emotions (e.g., theory of mind) and thoughts and respond with an appropriate emotion, while systemizing (folk physics) refers to a drive or capacity to analyze variables in a system, derive underlying rules governing a system, and construct systems in order to predict lawful events (Baron-Cohen, 2002; Baron-Cohen & Hammer, 1997). Baron- Cohen (2002) asserted that systemizing predicts weak central coherence (i.e., focus on details as opposed to global information processing) in ASD. Baron-Cohen (2008) asserted that hypersystemizing can explain preference for and success in predictable/lawful systems (e.g., math, spinning objects, calendar dates, engines) in ASD, as well as difficulties (e.g., resistance to change) in the unlawful social world of human behavior. Baron-Cohen and colleagues (Baron-Cohen, 2002, 2008; Baron-Cohen & Hammer, 1997; Baron-Cohen, Knickmeyer, & Belmonte, 2005) reported evidence in the general population of strengths in females in empathizing (e.g., turn taking, body language, cooperative and emotional conversation, early eye gaze), and in males in systemizing (e.g., occupations, tasks involving matching, assembly, mental rotations, map reading), while individuals with ASD show impairments in empathizing (e.g., false belief tasks, emotion recognition) and strengths in systemizing (e.g., calculation, memorization, attention to detail, picture-sequencing). Though these differences T.T. Rivet, J.L. Matson / Research in Autism Spectrum Disorders 5 (2011) 957–976 968 have been found, there was still considerable overlap, effect sizes were variable, and they reflect population and not individual differences (Baron-Cohen, 2008). Baron-Cohen has further proposed that exposure to fetal androgens are involved in the masculinization of the brain (Baron-Cohen, 2002; Baron-Cohen & Hammer, 1997; Baron-Cohen et al., 2005). This is related to earlier writings (e.g., Geschwind & Behan, 1982; Geschwind & Galaburda, 1985; Hines & Shipley, 1984; Leboyer, Osherson, Nosten, & Roubertoux, 1988) concerning lateralization of brain function and fetal androgen exposure. In support, Baron-Cohen and colleagues (Baron-Cohen & Hammer, 1997; Baron-Cohen et al., 2005) cited additional research linking male gender and ASD with left- handedness, brain differences, and lower 2D:4D (i.e., ratio between length of 2nd and 4th digit as proxy for first trimester testosterone), and masculine traits and ASD traits