or savant skills (i.e., visuospatial, memory, musical, and computational ability). 4.2.5. Conclusion In summary, overall relatively few differences in ASD symptoms have been found between males and females. Three studies found no significant gender differences in any ASD symptom areas. Some findings of greater socialization and T.T. Rivet, J.L. Matson / Research in Autism Spectrum Disorders 5 (2011) 957–976 962 communication impairments and abnormal motor movements in girls appear to have been related to lower IQ. Some studies found greater impairments in females via interview but not observation, or in current but not early functioning. Regarding specific findings, in socialization, one toddler study found girls had greater impairments (e.g., social interaction, adaptive social skills, empathy). In the average IQ range, females have been found to have greater impairments in some areas (e.g., friendships, reciprocal interaction, group play), but fewer impairments in others (e.g., social anxiety, showing/directing, and early reciprocal interaction, communication, and inappropriate facial expressions). Regarding communication, in toddlers, one study found girls to have greater communication abnormalities (via interview but not observation) and adaptive communication impairments (on the VABS but not the Mullen ). In the average IQ range, no significant gender differences have been found in communication with the exception of females having less impairment in social play at 4–5 years. Regarding restricted, repetitive, and stereotyped behaviors, some research has found that boys had greater peculiar visual interests, inappropriate/ stereotypic play, preoccupation with parts of objects, routines/rituals, and stereotyped mannerisms. In studies of toddlers or individuals in the average IQ range, no significant gender differences in this behavioral domain have been found. 4.2.6. In the general population A number of studies have examined gender differences in ASD symptoms in the general population, some with a subgroup of participants with ASD. In the general population, boys ages 7–9 have been found to score significantly higher (Posserud, Lundervold, & Gillberg, 2006) on the Autism Spectrum Screening Questionnaire (ASSQ; Ehlers & Gillberg, 1993; Ehlers, Gillberg, & Wing, 1999; Posserud et al., 2006), and males ages 7–15 have been found to score significantly higher (Constantino & Todd, 2003) on the Social Responsiveness Scale (SRS; Constantino, 2005; Constantino & Todd, 2003), with higher scores indicating the presence of more autistic traits. In a population study of the Childhood Autism Spectrum Test (CAST; Scott, Baron-Cohen, Bolton, & Brayne, 2002) on children ages 4–10 years, boys scored higher than girls, and these results held when ASD and a mixed special needs group were removed (Williams et al., 2008). In a study of twins at 8 years of age (90 with ASD), Ronald et al. (2006) also found that boys scored higher on the CAST. In a study of 8-year-old twins, Loat, Haworth, Plomin, and Craig (2008) found greater social impairments in boys; however, boys and girls did not differ significantly on other CAST domains or relationship problems as measured by the Relationships Problems Questionnaire . On the Autism Spectrum Quotient (AQ), males in the control group scored significantly higher than females, while there were no