(PEP) scales involving inappropriate affect and relating/human interest (Lord et al., 1982). Tsai and Beisler (1983) found that boys had greater social (as measured by the Developmental Profile Social Subscale) and play ( Symbolic Play Test ) abilities than girls with ASD. In a population-based study, Nicholas et al. (2008) found no significant gender differences in 8-year olds with ASD on the DSM-IV-TR social impairment criteria. In children with ASD (age: M = 9, SD = 6), Banach et al. (2009) found no significant gender differences on the ADI-R or VABS social domains in simplex or multiplex families, and this finding held both with and without IQ used as a covariate. In toddlers ages 18–33 months, Carter et al. (2007) examined gender differences with age and nonverbal ability ( Mullen Scales of Early Learning T.T. Rivet, J.L. Matson / Research in Autism Spectrum Disorders 5 (2011) 957–976 961 Visual Reception Scale) as covariates. Girls showed more Social Interaction impairment (ADI-R), poorer socialization skills (VABS), and poorer Competence in the areas of Mastery Motivation (e.g., claps for self, curious, persists on difficult tasks, wants to do things independently, likes figuring things out like stacking blocks) and Empathy ( Infant-Toddler Social and Emotional Assessment ; ITSEA). No significant gender differences were found in Reciprocal Social Interaction (ADOS-G) or Social Relatedness (ITSEA; Carter et al., 2007). Researchers have examined gender differences in samples with higher cognitive abilities and ASD. McLennan et al. (1993) examined gender differences on the ADI for participants with ASD matched on nonverbal IQ (all > 60) and age (range: 6–36 years). Females had greater impairments in current friendships and reciprocal social interaction, while males had greater separation anxiety and impairments in reciprocal social interaction and communication prior to age of 5. No significant gender differences were found for nonverbal social behaviors or sharing enjoyment/modifying behavior to context (McLennan et al., 1993). Holtmann et al. (2007) examined gender differences on the ADI-R, ADOS, and Child Behavior Checklist (CBCL) for participants with ASD matched on IQ (all > 70) and age (range: 2–20 years). Females had greater impairments in ADI-R current group play with peers and CBCL Social Withdrawal and Social Problems, while males had greater impairments on inappropriate facial expression (4–5 years) and showing/directing attention (current). No significant differences were found on ADI-R or ADOS overall social domains (Holtmann et al., 2007). 4.2.2. Communication Tsai and Beisler (1983) found that boys had greater receptive and expressive language abilities ( Sequenced Inventory of Communication Development ) than girls with ASD. Nicholas et al. (2008) found no gender differences in DSM-IV-TR communication criteria. Banach et al. (2009) found no significant gender differences in children with ASD on the ADI-R or VABS communication domains in multiplex families, and this finding held both with and without IQ used as a covariate. In contrast, in simplex families, girls exhibited less communication impairment (ADI-R) and lower adaptive communication skills (VABS); however, not with IQ covaried. (2008)Knickmeyer, Wheelwright, and Baron-Cohen (2008) found that females with ASD ages