girls demonstrated a more even profile across performance subtests. No significant sex differences were found on Full Scale, Verbal, or Performance IQ, or on the verbal subtests. Both boys and girls performed worse on Comprehension relative to other verbal subtests, reflective of difficulty understanding social contexts and solving social problems (Koyama et al., 2009). 4.8. Family size and birth order Researchers have examined gender differences in family characteristics such as birth order, family size, and so forth. However, Volkmar et al. (1993) cautioned that in familial studies, stoppage (i.e., not having more children after the birth of a child with a disability) may be higher in females due to greater ID, resulting in fewer siblings and underestimation of risk in siblings of females. Tsai et al. (1981) found females with ASD were more often first-born, only child, and were from smaller families. Pilowsky et al. (1998) found no significant gender differences in parental age at birth, birth order, or number of siblings. In individuals with ASD and nonverbal IQ above 60, Lord, Mulloy, Wendelboe, and Schopler (1991) found that females with ASD were from smaller families, and were more likely to be first-born whereas males with ASD were more likely to be first- or fourth-born or later. In a more recent larger sample familial aggregation study, Goin-Kochel et al. (2007) found no gender differences in family size of individuals with ASD. 4.9. Neurological, genetic, and medical comorbidity Researchers have examined gender differences as related to pre-, peri-, and post-natal complications, birth defects, dysmorphic features, identified syndromes, and epilepsy. Tsai et al. (1981) found greater evidence of neurological impairment in females with ASD, such as abnormal EEGs, history of epilepsy, evidence of brain damage on Rutter and Lockyer’s (1967) criteria, and enuresis. However, they did not account for the gender disparity in ID. Research in the area of comorbid neurological, genetic, and medical factors in ASD has since continued. Some researchers have since proposed subgroups of ASD based on these factors. Following is a review of the literature base related to gender differences in ASD in pregnancy and birth complications, birth defects, dysmorphic features, identified syndromes, and epilepsy. T.T. Rivet, J.L. Matson / Research in Autism Spectrum Disorders 5 (2011) 957–976 965 Gender differences in pre-, peri-, and post-natal complications in individuals with ASD have been examined. Several researchers have found no significant gender differences in pre-, peri-, and post-natal complications in individuals with ASD (Gillberg & Gillberg, 1983; Mason-Brothers, Ritvo, Guze, & Mo, 1987; Zwaigenbaum et al., 2002). However, results are complicated by the small number of females and the presence of ID (Lord et al., 1991). In individuals with ASD and nonverbal IQ above 60, Lord et al. (1991) obtained similar results (no significant gender differences). In contrast, in a sample of 23 males and 23 females with IQ above 70, Holtmann et al. (2007) found that females had more pre-, peri-, and post-natal complications, but no differences in neurological soft signs. Finally, Schendel and Bhasin (2008) found that