fear scores on the Revised Fear Survey Schedule for Children were higher for females compared to males (Matson & Love, 1990). In toddlers with ASD, Carter et al. (2007) found a trend towards more Atypical Depression/Withdrawal (ITSEA) in females with ASD, but no significant differences on the Externalizing, Internalizing, Dysregulation, or Maladaptive subscales. 4.6. Developmental, self-help, and motor skills Some researchers have examined gender differences in developmental, self-help, and motor skills in ASD. Tsai and Beisler (1983) found that boys had greater perceptual-motor abilities (Developmental Profile Physical and Self-Help subscales) than girls with ASD, but not when matched on age and receptive language. Wing (1981) found boys more likely to be ambulatory, though ID was not accounted for. In ambulatory participants, the sex ratio was similar (Wing, 1981). Volkmar et al. (1993) found no significant gender differences on the VABS with IQ covaried. In toddlers with ASD, Carter et al. (2007) found no significant gender differences in daily living skills (VABS). Boys had better gross motor skills (VABS) and gross and fine motor skills ( Mullen) (Carter et al., 2007). In individuals with ASD and IQ above 70, Holtmann et al. (2007) found no significant gender differences in developmental milestones, though females did achieve them earlier. 4.7. Neuropsychological/cognitive Two studies examined gender differences in ASD from a neuropsychological perspective with the Wechsler Intelligence Scales for Children-III (WISC-III). They included children with ASD and average IQ. The authors discussed cognitive theories related to ASD (e.g., executive functioning, theory of mind, weak central coherence) (for a review see Tsatsanis, 2005). Nyde ´ n et al. (2000) examined neuropsychological performance in 8- to 12-year olds with average IQ ( N = 34). Participants included clinic referred boys and girls with either ASD or ADHD, and a typically developing comparison girl group. Clinic girls performed worse on tests of global executive functions ( Tower of London ) and theory of mind ( Cartoon Explanation Tasks – Mental ). No significant differences were found on other tests of executive functions (i.e., inhibiting prepotent response, stopping an ongoing response, and interference control) and cognitive ability (i.e., WISC-III Freedom from Distractibility, Processing Speed, and a Block Design task), though clinic boys performed better than clinic girls except on Processing Speed (Nyde ´ n et al., 2000). Koyama, Kamio, Inada, and Kurita (2009) examined sex differences on the WISC-III Japanese version in 26 girls (mean age 8 years) and 116 boys (mean age 9 years) with ASD and average IQ. Girls performed significantly better on the Processing Speed Index (Coding and Symbol Search), possibly reflective of the distractibility, extreme slowness, circumstantiality, and drive for perfection in high functioning autism (Ehlers, Nyde ´ n, Gillberg, & Dahlgren Sandberg, 1997). Boys’ performance on Block Design was significantly better than girls, supportive of a detail focused cognitive style and the weak central coherence hypothesis in ASD (Happe ´ , 1999; Happe ´ & Frith, 2006; Shah & Frith, 1993). Boys scored higher on Block Design compared to other performance subtests, while