. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 972 1. Introduction A preponderance of males in autism spectrum disorders (ASD) has been evident since the two seminal publications associated with the origin of the disorders (Asperger, 1944; Kanner, 1943). In 1943, Leo Kanner published Autistic Disturbances of Affective Contact, describing 11 cases, 8 of whom were boys. In 1944, Hans Asperger published ‘ Autistic Psychopathy ’ in Childhood (translated title) describing 4 ‘‘prototypical’’ cases (all male). Asperger (1944) wrote about the gender disparity. He wrote, ‘‘It is fascinating to note that the autistic children we have seen are almost exclusively boys’’ (Asperger, 1944; Frith, 1991, p. 84). He noted that some girls had ‘‘contact disturbances which were reminiscent of autism,’’ though none had the ‘‘fully formed’’ or ‘‘fully fledged’’ picture as did the four boys (Asperger, 1944; Frith, 1991, pp. 84–85). Upon exploring the current literature and hypotheses for the gender disparity in ASD, Asperger’s original writings on gender differences have significant relevance. Asperger admitted that the etiology was unknown (Asperger, 1944; Frith, 1991). He noted some girls had developed the traits after encephalitis. He purported, ‘‘There is certainly a strong hint at a sex-linked or at least sex-limited mode of inheritance’’ (Asperger, 1944; Frith, 1991, p. 84). Further, he noted that it could just be chance that he had not encountered autism in girls, or that autistic traits in girls are not apparent until post-puberty. Asperger also observed that several of the mothers had autistic features (Asperger, 1944; Frith, 1991). Finally, Asperger related symptoms of autism to a number of purported important gender variables (e.g., cognition, emotions, instincts), writing: The autistic personality is an extreme variant of male intelligence, of the male character. Even within the normal variation, we find typical sex differences in intelligence. In general, girls are better learners. They are more gifted for the concrete and the practical, and for tidy, methodical work. Boys, on the other hand, tend to have a gift for logical ability, abstraction, precise thinking and formulating, and for independent scientific investigation. This is the reason, too, why in general boys at older age levels do better than girls in the Binet test. The narrowly logical and abstract items which start at the ten-year level are simply more congenial to boys! In the autistic individual the male pattern is exaggerated to the extreme. In general, abstraction is congenial to male thought processes, while female thought processes draw more strongly on feelings and instincts. In the autistic person abstraction is so highly developed that the relationship to the concrete, to objects and to people has largely been lost, and as a result the instinctual aspects of adaptation are heavily reduced. (Asperger, 1944; Frith, 1991, pp. 84–85) This gender disparity has been consistently reported to date, with estimates of a male to female ratio of approximately 4.3:1 (Fombonne, 2003, 2005, 2007). Although there is a long history of an identified gender disparity, a paucity of research has