Gender biases Some researchers (Carter et al., 2007; Holtmann et al., 2007; McLennan et al., 1993) have discussed possible environmental/social gender biases in ASD (e.g., parent report, parent expectations, upbringing, sex role models, and socialization). In daughters, parents may expect more social and communicative behavior (Carter et al., 2007; McLennan et al., 1993), impacting both their behavior (e.g., more prompts to daughters to behave in an affectionate and social manner) and, as informants, interpretation (e.g., interpreting behavior of daughters to suggest more social interest and motivation; McLennan et al., 1993). Similarly, parents may perceive daughters as having greater impairments resulting in a larger discrepancy between expectations and actual behavior (Holtmann et al., 2007). In toddlers, Carter et al. (2007) found parents rated girls as having lower competence (e.g., empathy) not evident on observation (ADOS). Finally, the social and communicative nature of peer relationships in females may be more demanding (McLennan et al., 1993). 6. Conclusion For disorders such as ASD that have such a pronounced gender difference, Rutter et al. (2003) pointed out that there is a dearth of research addressing a variety of key issues such as the validity of diagnostic criteria for males and females and gender issues in assessment instruments (Koenig & Tsatsanis, 2005; Rutter et al., 2003). The large body of research literature T.T. Rivet, J.L. Matson / Research in Autism Spectrum Disorders 5 (2011) 957–976 971 concerning the assessment, treatment, and etiology of ASD has been conducted with predominantly male samples (Bell, et al., 2005). Hence, extrapolating this to females with ASD poses concerns (Koenig & Tsatsanis, 2005). Rutter et al. (2003) also pointed out the need for evaluation of gender differences with regard to developmental variables, chronicity and recurrence, and comorbidity and severity. Despite the long observed male predominance in ASD, there is a paucity of research examining gender differences. A host of methodological issues have plagued this area and contributed to inconsistent findings. Given the large male to female ratio, ascertainment of female participants and thus small female sample sizes has been an obstacle (Koenig & Tsatsanis, 2005). Additionally, a major issue has been how to handle the IQ disparity (Volkmar et al., 1993), which can produce widely varying results (e.g., Lord et al., 1982; Volkmar et al., 1993). Volkmar et al. (1993) emphasized that it is unclear if it is appropriate to control for IQ, as the relationships between IQ, ASD, and gender have not been fleshed out. Additional methodological issues include changes over time in the diagnostic criteria and categories, heterogeneity in presentation, age ranges and developmental changes in symptom presentation, differences in samples (ascertainment bias, stringency of definitions, epidemiological versus clinical), and so forth (Carter et al., 2007; Lord & Schopler, 1985; Volkmar et al., 1993). Hence, the current knowledge base is scant, and additional research is needed. It is unclear how much of the gender disparity is an actual difference in prevalence and/or presentation or reflective of problems in the current system (Koenig & Tsatsanis, 2005). Furthermore, gender differences