al. (2009) found lower IQ in females with ASD from simplex but not multiplex families. These authors pointed out that de novo CNV have been found to be more common in simplex versus multiplex families and may be more common in females with ASD (Marshall et al., 2008; Sebat et al., 2007). Banach et al. (2009) purported that there may be a greater frequency of genomic risk factors in simplex families, particularly in females, associated with both ASD and lower nonverbal IQ, versus males having a more familial form of ASD and higher IQ. This line of research points to impact of stratification of ASD samples in genetic research based variables such as gender, simplex or multiplex families, presence of other conditions (e.g., genetic syndromes, birth defects, dysmorphic features, ID, medical conditions, language impairment), and ASD symptom areas (Folstein, 2006; Happe ´ & Ronald, 2008; Happe ´ et al., 2006; Skuse, 2007; Waterhouse, 2008). 5.8. Diagnostic issues with gender Kopp and Gillberg (1992) hypothesized that ASD is underdiagnosed in females because the diagnostic criteria and behavioral phenotype have been derived from typical male cases. Thus, the phenotype may differ in girls. Kopp and Gillberg (1992) contrasted the behavioral presentation of six girls with autism to that typical of males with autism. Socially, in contrast to ‘‘extreme autistic aloneness,’’ these girls ‘‘tended more towards ‘clinging’ to other people, imitating their speech and movements without a deeper understanding of the silent laws of ordinary social interaction, inability to understand the emotional content of facial expressions as they show in real-life interaction, treating people as objects and only brief periods of aloofness’’ (Kopp & Gillberg, 1992, p. 96). Some presented similar to Wing’s (1989) ‘‘active but odd’’ classification. They exhibited extreme echolalia and repetitive questioning. In contrast to preoccupation with objects and circumscribed interests in boys, the girls demonstrated an ‘‘overall lack of initiative’’ (Kopp & Gillberg, 1992, p. 97). Gillberg (2007) noted that typically developing girls are less hyperactive and aggressive, behaviors associated with ASD and reason for referral. Kopp and Gillberg (1992, p. 97) purported that difficulties in boys may be difficult to ignore or dismiss, as boys ‘‘may be both aggressive and domineering and show strong initiative in their insistence on sameness.’’ Gillberg (2007) also noted that typically developing girls speak sooner and more frequently, and greater language and social imitation skills may mask a core deficit (e.g., empathy) in girls (Kopp & Gillberg, 1992). Finally, girls may not exhibit visual self-stimulation behaviors typical of autism because they lack exceptional visuospatial skills (Kopp & Gillberg, 1992). A number of diagnostic barriers may ensue for girls with ASD. Only the most severe cases may be referred for evaluation (Gillberg, 2007). They may receive vague diagnoses (e.g., learning disorder) or other diagnoses such as obsessive-compulsive, conduct, paranoid, depressive, personality, or eating disorders (Gillberg, 2007; Kopp & Gillberg, 1992). As described previously, females with significant ASD impairments have experienced misdiagnosis, delayed diagnosis, greater difficulty in the diagnostic process, and lack of diagnosis. 5.9.