4–14 years engaged in more pretend play ( Children’s Play Questionnaire ). In toddlers, Carter et al. (2007) found girls with ASD to have greater communication impairments (ADOS), and lower expressive and receptive communication (VABS). No significant gender differences were found on nonverbal communication (ADI-R) or in receptive and expressive language (Mullen; Carter et al., 2007). In samples with higher cognitive abilities and ASD, McLennan et al. (1993) found that females with ASD demonstrated less impairment in social play at 4–5 years of age (ADI), with no significant differences in the areas of gesture, conversation, language abnormalities, prosody/intonation, or communication (current and ever). Holtmann et al. (2007) found no significant gender differences in communication (ADI-R or ADOS). 4.2.3. Restricted interests and repetitive behavior In perhaps the earliest study focusing on gender differences in ASD, Tsai et al. (1981, p. 168) described greater abnormal motor movements in females with ASD, which they described as ‘‘dystonia, abnormal posture and gait, dystonic posturing of hands and fingers, hand flapping, tremor, tic-like movement, ankle clonus, and emotional facial paralysis (i.e., asymmetry of the lower portion of the face when children smiled or spoke spontaneously).’’ This has not been supported in further studies. Lord et al. (1982) found that boys with ASD had more peculiar visual interests (CARS) and inappropriate, routinized, and stereotypic play (PEP), with IQ covaried out. Banach et al. (2009) found no significant gender differences in children with ASD on ADI-R restricted, repetitive, and stereotyped behavior domain in simplex or multiplex families, and both with and without IQ covaried. Nicholas et al. (2008) found that boys with ASD had more preoccupation with parts of objects, routines and rituals, and stereotyped mannerisms based on DSM-IV-TR criteria; but no differences regarding restricted interests. In toddlers with ASD, Carter et al. (2007) found no significant differences on ADI-R or ADOS restricted, repetitive, and stereotyped behaviors. Finally, in studies of samples with higher cognitive abilities and ASD, no significant gender differences were found on restricted, repetitive, stereotyped behaviors on the ADI (McLennan et al., 1993) or ADI-R (Holtmann et al., 2007). 4.2.4. All ASD symptoms Several studies have included a range of intellectual ability levels and failed to find any gender differences in ASD symptoms. Volkmar et al. (1993) used IQ as a covariate and found no significant gender differences on the Autism Behavior Checklist (ABC; Krug, Akick, & Almond, 1980), ICD-10 criteria, or VABS. In participants ages 20 months to 34 years, Pilowsky et al. (1998) matched groups on mental age and found no significant gender differences on the ADI-R or CARS. Finally, in participants ages 4–52 years ( M = 8, SD = 5), Hus et al. (2007) found no significant gender differences in groups based on ADI- R items involving: word or phrase acquisition, repetitive sensory motor actions (i.e., hand and finger or other complex mannerisms, repetitive use of objects, unusual sensory interests, and rocking), insistence on sameness (i.e., resistance to trivial change in environment, compulsions/rituals, difficulties with change in routine or environment),