mayor medida definen el trastorno, las habili- dades sociales. Las conclusiones más destacadas señalan que, aunque, por la diversidad sintomática de los niños con TEA y sus diferentes características, los resultados de las intervenciones pueden ser diversos, son muchos los programas que con- siguen mejorar las habilidades sociales en estos niños y obtienen resultados destacables aquellas intervenciones que incluyen a las familias en las sesiones y que se realizan con el uso de las nuevas tecnologías, como ordenadores o robots. P a l a b r a s c l a v e : Intervención, Autismo, TEA, Habilidades Sociales. The prevalence rates of autistic spectrum disorder (ASD) have increased markedly in recent years. ASD is increasingly present in schools and in society, so it is essential for us to know more about this disorder and the possibilities for intervention. The ob- jective of this work is to carry out a bibliographic review of the articles published in recent years in relation to different inter- vention programs and techniques that have recently been used to work with children with ASD to train them in the difficulties that most define the disorder: social skills. The most important conclusions indicate that, despite the symptomatic diversity of children with ASD and their different characteristics which can lead to diverse results, there are many programs that improve social skills in these children and notable results are obtained by interventions that include families in the sessions and that are carried out with the use of new technologies, such as computers or robots. K e y w o r d s : Intervention, Autism, ASD, Social Skills. Received: 15 julio 2017 - Accepted: 5 febrero 2018 Correspondence: María Inmaculada Fernández-Andrés. Universi- dad de Valencia. Blasco Ibañez 21. 46010 Valencia. España. E-mail: m.inmaculada.fernandez@uv.es A to understand more about this disorder and the possibilities for intervention. Most of the psychological intervention programs that are currently carried out with children with ASD adopt a behavioral perspective (Lord et al, 2005), many of them based on modeling and reinforcement, peer mediation or the use of scripts and social stories (Matson, Matson & Rivet, 2007). All of these interventions are designed to enable subjects with ASD to improve their social skills, giving them simple guidelines on how to proceed in certain social situations and providing modeling examples for their learning. Some of the most well-known interventions (Mulas et al, 2010) are the “Lovaas program of applied behavior analysis” (Lovaas, 1987) and the TEACCH (Treatment and Education of Autistic and related Communications Handicapped Children), created in the 1970s by Eric Schopler and Gary Mesibov (Mesibov, Shea & Schopler, 2005). The “Lovaas program of applied behavior analysis” is a behavioral methodology program of high intensity early intervention that involves the use of reinforcement techniques, learning in discrimination, gradual withdrawal of support stimuli, shaping, etc. TEACCH is a clinical and psychoeducational personalized intervention program that aims to respond to the particular needs of children with ASD, presenting the information in a visual way in the