A r t i c l e s Papeles del Psicólogo / Psychologist Papers, 2018. Vol. 39(2), pp. 140-149 https://doi.org/10.23923/pap.psicol2018.2859 http://www.papelesdelpsicologo.es http://www.psychologistpapers.com 140 utism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) constitutes a diagnosis established in the DSM-5 (APA, 2013), within neurodevelopmental disorders, which is characterized by difficulties in communication and social interaction, as well as repetitive and restricted behavior patterns, activities and interests, that are present since childhood and that affect the daily functioning of the person (Alcantud & Alonso, 2015). One of the defining characteristics of ASD is the difficulty that these people have in the development of social skills (SS) and communication, with the consequent limitation in understanding signs of a social nature that this involves. People with ASD have difficulties in the processing of non-literal language, that is, the understanding of double meaning, irony or metaphorical language (Rundblad & Annaz, 2010). They find it difficult to interpret facial expressions, gestures or tone of voice, and it is often difficult for them to maintain eye contact with their interlocutor (Spence, 2003). There are several explanatory theories that attempt to account for the possible causes of these difficulties, among them, the theory of executive dysfunction (Hill, 2004) and the theory of weak central coherence (Frith & Happé, 1994). Although probably the one that is most related to the social limitations of people with ASD is the one that alludes to the difficulties in the construction of Theory of Mind (ToM) (Baron-Cohen, 1991), understood as “the ability that the human being develops to attribute thoughts to other people” (Argitas, 1999, p.121) and to interpret their actions and attitudes, taking these thoughts and beliefs into account. According to this approach, the defining difficulties of ASD, and especially those of a social nature, are explained as alterations in different aspects that make up ToM: difficulties in identifying or distinguishing emotions, the development of empathy, the understanding of pragmatic elements of language, etc. (Miguel, 2006). At present, approximately 1% of the population has ASD and, in recent years, the prevalence of this disorder has been constantly increasing (Baio, 2012; López Méndez & Costa Cabanillas, 2014), which may be partially due to changes in the diagnostic criteria (Hsu, Chiang, Lin & Lin, 2012). ASD is increasingly present in schools and in society, and it is essential INTERVENTION IN SOCIAL SKILLS OF CHILDREN WITH AUTISTIC SPECTRUM DISORDER: A BIBLIOGRAPHICAL REVIEW Inmaculada March-Miguez, Maite Montagut-Asunción, Gemma Pastor-Cerezuela and María Inmaculada Fernández-Andrés Universidad de Valencia Los índices de prevalencia del trastorno del espectro autista (TEA) han aumentado notablemente en los últimos años. El TEA está cada vez más presente en las escuelas y en la sociedad y es por ello que resulta imprescindible conocer más sobre este trastorno y las posibilidades de intervención. El objetivo de este trabajo es realizar una revisión bibliográfica de los artículos publicados en los últimos años en relación a distintos programas y técnicas de intervención que se han venido utilizando re- cientemente para trabajar con los niños con TEA una de las dificultades que en