context of the sessions, and enabling anticipation and structuring, to offer the child with ASD a simple organization of their space and time. Additionally, interventions in which the family participates are increasingly used, as well as those that make use of new technologies (Dekker, Nauta, Mulder, Timmerman, & de Bildt, 2014). The investigations that have been carried out to date on the different SS intervention programs for children with ASD indicate that there are many ways of doing this, but none has been found that is capable of working for all children, since each person with ASD is different and may react differently to the intervention even when the environmental conditions are the same (De la Iglesia & Parra, 2008). The main objective of this work is to review various recently published articles that present different SS intervention programs and that have been used in recent years with children with ASD, to explore how these interventions have been carried out and what conclusions may be of most interest when working with these children in practice. METHOD The objective of this paper is to review and present the main conclusions of some of the SS training programs in children with ASD that have been used more recently, based on a bibliographic review of the articles published in the last three years that address this subject. To do this, a search was carried out in the PsycINFO and ERIC databases, using the following descriptors: “intervention”, “autism”, “ASD” and “social skills”. These descriptors were combined to create a search equation that includes works that complete, validate, describe or compare one or more intervention programs to improve SS in children with ASD. A first search was carried out of articles published in the last three years, under the criterion of greater recency, whose content exposed some of the different training programs of SS in children with ASD that have been used recently and whose conclusions were of most interest. Included in this first search were journal articles published in English that could be found in the PsycINFO and ERIC databases. Duplicate items were removed from the review. From the initial number of articles obtained in this systematic search, a second selection was made, according to the following criteria: empirical studies and full text available. Finally, a manual selection was carried out and articles that did not contain the necessary information to be included in the review were rejected. This process of searching for and selecting articles is represented in the search diagram (Figure 1). The final number of articles for the review was 42. These articles are classified by type of program and in alphabetical order in Table 1. This table also includes characteristics of the programs such as the number of sessions, the duration of the sessions, whether they were carried out in groups or individually, and whether the family participated in them. RESULTS The different SS intervention programs for children with ASD included in the articles reviewed are carried out in group