Empathy Measure IEP: Individualized Education Program KBIT: Kaufman Brief Intelligence Test K-CBCL: Korean Version of the Child Behavior Checklist K-SADS: Schedule of Affective Disorders and Schizophrenia for School-Aged Children K-SSRS: Korean Version of the Social Skills Rating System KTEA: Kaufman Test of Educational Achievement LACA: Loneliness and Aloneness Scale for Children and Adolescents NEPSY-II: Evaluación Neuropsicológica Infantil-II [Children's Neuropsychological Evaluation-II] PHS: Piers-Harris Self-Concept Scale POPE: Playground Observation of Peer Engagement PS: The Parenting Scale PSI/SF: Parenting Stress Index: Short Form SBS: Social Behaviors Scale SCARED-71: Screen for Child Anxiety and Related Emotional Disorders SCAS-P: The Spence Children’s Anxiety Scale: Parent Version SCIFF: System for Coding Interactions and Family Functioning SCQ: Social Communication Questionnaire SDQ: Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire SEC: Social Events Card SIAS: Social Interaction Anxiety Scale SIPA: Stress Index for Parents of Adolescents SRS: Social Responsiveness Scale SSIS: Social Skills Improvement System SSQ: Social Skills Questionnaires SSQ-P: Social Skills Questionnaire-Parent SSQ-T: Social Skills Questionnaire-Teacher SSRS: Social Skills Rating System STAIC-S: State and Trait Anxiety Inventory for Children STAIC-T: State and Trait Anxiety Inventory for Children STRS: Student Teacher Relationship Scale TASSK: Test of Adolescent Social Skills Knowledge ToM test-R: The Theory of Mind test-Revised VCI: Verbal Comprehension Index WASI: Wechsler Abbreviated Scale of Intelligence WISC: Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children WISC-R: Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-Revised WSIS: The Wish for Social Interaction Scale considering the characteristics of the family, the possibilities offered by the facilities available, etc. One limitation for the present review is the heterogeneity in the characteristics that define the different programs and intervention techniques that have been included and, particularly, the differences in the number of sessions of the programs and their duration. Some of the programs were held over a number of weekly sessions, others in more than one session per week, and others had only 1 or 2 sessions. Also in some works the sample of participants was very small, which prevents the generalization of the results. In order to solve these issues, a series of proposals for future research are suggested, such as interventions aimed at achieving results that can be maintained over time, so it would be necessary for the interventions to have a follow-up later, or increase the duration of the intervention sessions, as well as to include more sessions in the intervention program and to try to bring these interventions to a greater number of participants. CONFLICT OF INTERESTS There is no conflict of interest. REFERENCES American Psychiatric Association, APA (2013). Diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders , 5. Washington, DC: Author. Alcantud, F., & Alonso, Y. (2015). Trastorno del Espectro Autista [Autism Spectrum Disorder]. In E. Mireno Osella (Ed.), Necesidades educativas especiales: Una mirada diferente [ Special education needs: A different view ] (pp. 1- 21). Córdoba, España: Fedune. Artigas, J. (1999). El lenguaje en los trastornos autistas [Language in autistic disorders]. Revista de Neurología , 28 (Supl 2), 118-23. Baio, J. (2012). Prevalence of Autism Spectrum Disorders: Autism and developmental disabilities monitoring network, 14 Sites, United States,