CELF-4; WASI; SCQ CSBS; Communicative Development Inventory Intervention Parents: 6h. Research: one over 2 weeks. Total: 5 weeks. 1 session per week (60/90 min.) 34 daily sessions (45 min.) Sessions undetermined. 16 sessions (90 min.) 1 session per week (25 min.) - 10 weeks. 14 sessions - 9 weeks 1 or 2 times per week. 1 session (20/30 min.) - 8 weeks. Treatment: 8 weeks. Follow up: 6 weeks. 12 weekly sessions (90 min.) Not specified. Results 4 Acquisition, maintenance and generalization of SS. 4 Later, SS similar to their peers. Improvements in social communication and related skills. Increase and maintenance of SS. More collaborative play with the robot. Improved emotional competence, maintained during 6 months of follow-up. 4 Improvement in recognition, mentalization of affect and SS. 4 Interventions with computers may produce broader cognitive and SS changes. Improvements in SS, more acceptance of classmates and increase in the frequency and duration of social interactions. Increase in the number of social exchanges. The environmental behavior: 4 Predicts the results of the treatment. 4 Modifies the treatment schedule to better meet the needs. 4 Improvements in SS maintained at 6 weeks. 4 Improvement in self-efficacy of parents, and behavior and anxiety of the child. 4 Improvement in social behavior (non-verbal communication, empathic response and social relationships). 4 No significant improvement in cognitive- social aspects. 4 Children with ASD: lowest communication scores (from 8 months) ABAS-II. Adaptive Behavior Assessment System II ABC: Autism Behavior Checklist ABS: Australian Bureau of Statistics ADI-R: Autism Diagnostic Interview-Revised ADOS: Autism Diagnostic Observation Schedule ADOS-G: Autism Diagnostic Observation Schedule-General DD-CGAS: Developmental Disabled Children’s Global Assessment Scale EBSS: Emotion-Based Social Skills Training EDQ: Emotional Dependence Questionnaire EHWA-VABS: Korean version of the Vineland Adaptive Behavior Scale PSI: Parenting Stress Index PSOC: Parenting Sense of Competence Scale QPQ: Quality of Play Questionnaire QSQ: Quality of Socialization Questionnaire RMET: Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test SAS: Social Anxiety Scale SOCIAL SKILLS OF CHILDREN WITH ASD 146 A r t i c l e s CONCLUSIONS The present review shows that there are various intervention programs and techniques that have been used in recent years to work with SS in children with ASD. These children often have deficits in these areas, which causes difficulties for the social relationship and understanding of the society in which they live. It was decided to carry out this review in Spanish, since it seems that there has been a recent increase in interventions that work on the development of SS in children with ASD. Further reasons include the need that exists for it and the benefit that training in these abilities means for these children, and the fact that there are numerous reviews in English and not so many in Spanish. Although the interventions included in the review are numerous and in many cases there is a certain consensus in choosing certain programs that are considered to be more effective, each intervention provides some results. Many of them achieve an improvement in SS, social interaction