personnel who work with the student and families, then meets to write the IEP based on the evaluation and team member suggestions. “The IEP contains information about the student’s strengths and needs, as well as goals and objectives based on these areas of need. Regular monitoring of student progress not only helps to evaluate whether the student is making progress toward these identified goals, but also helps the teacher to examine the effectiveness of the curriculum and the strategies used to teach the student.” − Autism program specialist IEPs always include annual goals, short-term objectives, and special education services required by the student, as well as a yearly evaluation to see if the goals were met. Annual goals must explain measurable behaviors so that it is clear what progress should have been made by the end of the year. The short-term objectives should contain incremental and sequential steps toward meeting each annual goal. Annual goals and short-term objectives can be about developing social and communication skills, or reducing problem behavior. Appendix D provides more information on writing objectives and developing measurable IEP goals for learners with autism. As a general education teacher, you will be responsible for reporting back to the IEP team on the student’s progress toward meeting specific academic, social, and behavioral goals and objectives as outlined in the IEP. You also will be asked for input about developing new goals for the student in subsequent and review IEP meetings. A student calendar, which may be customized for an individual student and used to document the child’s progress toward each specific, measurable goal, is included in Appendix E. This resource can decrease the time spent documenting the student’s performance in a comprehensive manner. SIX-STEP PLAN 15 Step 6: Manage Behavioral Challenges For students with autism, problem behaviors may be triggered for a variety of reasons. Such behaviors may include temper tantrums, running about the room, loud vocalizations, self-injurious activities, or other disruptive or distracting behaviors. Because children with autism often have difficulties communicating in socially acceptable ways, they may act out when they are confused or fearful about something. For example, your student with autism may start pacing the room when the normal daily routine is disrupted, as their way of expressing confusion at what is going on in their environment. The child with autism may also begin jumping because this movement distracts him or her from a bothersome noise. The most important thing you can do to help reduce the frequency and intensity of these behaviors is to decipher the cause and learn to distinguish the child’s behavior stemming from autism from the deliberate misbehavior requiring disciplinary action. Think about the characteristics of autism that we have been discussing and how they might be affecting the behavior in question. Look for patterns in these behaviors ⎯ Do they happen around the same time of day or when a certain activity is occurring within the classroom? Does the child with autism seem unusually tired or sleepy on days