Koegel, L. K. (1995). Teaching children with autism : Strategies for initiating positive interactions and improving learning opportunities . Baltimore: Paul H. Brookes Publishing Co. This book provides research-based strategies and information for including children with autism in the classroom. Specific chapters provide helpful information, such as: Chapter 1 describes autism and various educational intervention strategies; Chapter 9 highlights the importance of social relationships; Chapter 11 discusses the history and legal issues in the development of IEPs; and Chapter 12 describes ways parents can collaborate with educators. Kranowitz, C. S., Sava, D. I., Haber, E., Balzer-Martin, L., & Szklut, S. (2001). Answers to questions teachers ask about sensory integration (2 nd ed.). Las Vegas, NV: Sensory Resources. This book describes sensory integration difficulties and provides checklists and tools to use with children who struggle with these challenges. RESOURCES 21 National Research Council. (2001). Educating children with autism . Washington, DC: National Academy Press. This book provides a detailed overview on educating children with autism, including recommendations on strategies, programs, and policies. Chapter 3 discusses the important roles of parents in working with educators; Chapter 6 provides an overview of theories behind social difficulties in children with autism and strategies to target social goals; and Chapter 10 offers intervention approaches for problem behaviors in students with autism. Sewell, K. (2000). Breakthroughs: How to reach students with autism . Verona, WI: Attainment Company, Inc. This book offers a detailed overview for teachers of children with autism. Several chapters are particularly helpful in relation to the topics presented in this guide. Chapter 4 provides classroom set-up ideas, and Chapter 9 describes the IEP process in detail. Simpson, R. L. & Myles, B. S. (Eds.). (1998). Educating children and youth with autism: Strategies for effective practice . Austin, TX: Pro-Ed. This book provides teachers with methods for incorporating children with autism into the classroom environment, with easy-to-apply strategies and approaches. Stainback, S. (1996). Inclusion : A guide for educators. Baltimore: Paul H. Brookes Publishing Co. Experienced educators from the United States and Canada discuss strategies to handle behavioral and learning problems using real-life models. Wagner, S. (1999). Inclusive programming for elementary students with autism. Arlington, TX: Future Horizons, Inc. This book offers exercises and strategies to make inclusion comfortable for the student with autism, as well as his or her teachers and classmates. Weiss, M. J. & Harris, S. L. (2001). Reaching out, joining in: Teaching social skills to young children with autism (topics in autism) . Bethesda, MD: Woodbine House. This book provides methods of teaching social skills to children with autism. RESOURCES 22 RESOURCES 23 Web sites For general information about autism, many autism and disability organizations exist, from small local support groups to broad-based national organizations across the country. You can find them using standard search procedures. Below is a partial listing of national organizations that have made education of children with autism and developmental disabilities a priority and whose Web sites provide useful information to families living with autism. In