during these unstructured times. To ensure this does not happen, you may consider a rotating assignment of playground peer buddies for the student with autism. The student will then have a chance to observe and model appropriate social behavior of different classmates throughout the year. This “circle of friends” can also be encouraged outside of school. Step 5: Collaborate on the Implementation of an Educational Program The next key step in your preparations will be to participate in the development and implementation of an educational program for your student with autism. It is critical to develop this plan based on the assessment of the child’s current academic skills and his or her educational goals, as defined in the IEP. A Brief Legislative History Congress passed the Education of All Handicapped Children Act in 1975 and reauthorized it in 1990 as IDEA. This legislation guarantees that all students with disabilities will be provided a free and appropriate public education (FAPE). It also states that students with disabilities should be placed in the least restrictive environment (LRE), where they can make progress toward achieving their IEP goals, meaning that as much as possible, children with disabilities should be educated with children who are not disabled. Finally, it states that students with disabilities must have an IEP, which describes the student’s current level of functioning, his or her goals for the year, and how these goals will be supported through special services. IEPs are an important focus of the six-step plan, and they are discussed in greater detail below. Because the challenges associated with autism affect many key aspects of development, the impact of the disorder on education and learning is profound. Therefore, children with autism are considered disabled under the IDEA guidelines and are legally entitled to an IEP plan and appropriate accommodations from the school to help them achieve their developmental and academic goals. SIX-STEP PLAN 14 Individualized Education Programs IEPs are created by a multidisciplinary team of education professionals, along with the child’s parents, and are tailored to the needs of the individual student. The IEP is a blueprint for everything that will happen to a child in school for the next year. Special and general education teachers, speech and language therapists, occupational therapists, school psychologists, and families form the IEP team and meet intermittently to discuss student progress on IEP goals. Before the IEP team meets, an assessment team gathers information together about the student to make an evaluation and recommendation. The school psychologist, social worker, classroom teacher, and/or speech pathologist are examples of educational professionals who conduct educational assessments. A neurologist may conduct a medical evaluation, and an audiologist may complete hearing tests. The classroom teacher also gives input about the academic progress and classroom behavior of the student. Parents give input to each specialist throughout the process. Then, one person on the evaluation team coordinates all the information, and the team meets to make recommendations to the IEP team. The IEP team, which consists of the school