when they tend to act out more frequently? Communicating with families and other team members and observing the behavior in the context in which it occurs is essential to examining the behavior. The next step is to test the hypotheses about why the behavior occurred. For example, let’s say that you notice that every time the bell rings, your student with autism starts making loud vocalizations. You may think that the student is upset by the unexpected noise. You could test this theory by giving the student a gentle tap on the shoulder each day 2 minutes before the bell is going to ring to prepare him or her for the noise. If that does not work, your next hypothesis could be that the noise hurts the student’s ears. You may want to request that the bell not ring in your particular classroom. Instead, you could set a lower and less jarring alarm to let students know when it is time for recess. If that solution does not work, you can develop and test alternative hypotheses. In addition, teachers should use consistent, positive behavioral reinforcement techniques to promote positive and pro-social behaviors of the child with autism. The student’s IEP should contain concrete and explicit positive behavioral goals, as well as a wide range of methods for promoting these goals. For example, a behavior goal may be for the student to engage in small group play in the classroom for 5 minutes three times a week without having an outburst or other inappropriate behavior. When the student does this, he or she should be rewarded with a lot of verbal praise, concrete incentives (e.g., tokens for time playing with favorite toy), or some other predetermined reward. Another possibility would be to set up a visual system, making it abundantly clear to the child that he has accomplished something important. It is critical that the student’s parents and IEP SIX-STEP PLAN 16 team help determine the incentive system that you will use to shape the child’s positive behaviors. Teachers may choose to ignore other negative behaviors or give predetermined consequences. The key is to be consistent with how you react to the behaviors over time and to use as many positive strategies to promote pro-social behaviors as possible. In addition, when a problem behavior does occur, it may help for the student to go to a quiet area of the classroom. This less noisy and familiar environment may help the student calm down. Or, if an educational aide is in the classroom, perhaps the student could be escorted to a playground or a recreational area to let off steam. Pulling It All Together The six-step plan, discussed above, presents a constructive framework for how to approach the inclusion of a child with autism in your classroom. Just as every child with autism is different, so is every school environment. It is quite likely that there will be constraints ⎯ environmental, interpersonal, financial, and administrative ⎯ on the ways that you can