addition, you can find many excellent organizations at the statewide and regional level that can help families with information, resources, and lists of local schools. They are too numerous to list here but can be found through searches on the Web or through information provided by some of the organizations listed here. At the end of this list, we have also provided several useful Web sites specifically about IEPs. National Information Center for Children and Youth with Disabilities (NICHCY) www.nichcy.org P.O. Box 1492 Washington, DC 20013 1-800-695-0285 This national information center provides information on disabilities and disability-related issues. This is a site rich with resources, including conferences, state organizations, and information. Organization for Autism Research (OAR) www.researchautism.org 2000 N. 14th Street, Suite 710 Arlington, VA 22201 1-866-366-9710 OAR focuses on promoting applied research and feedback on research to the autism community. It also publishes a series of community-friendly guides related to autism to include: Life Journey Through Autism: A Parent’s Guide to Research, Life Journey Through Autism: An Educator’s Guide, Life Journey Through Autism: An Educator’s Guide to Asperger Syndrome, and Life Journey Through Autism: A Guide for Transition to Adulthood. The National Institute of Child Health and Human Development (NICHD) Autism Site www.nichd.nih.gov/autism This site’s goal is to provide easy access to the most current information about NICHD research projects, publications, news releases, and other activities related to autism and similar disorders. Treatment and Education of Autistic and Communications Handicapped Children (TEACCH) www.teacch.com The TEACCH program is located at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill. This Web site offers information about autism as well as various educational approaches. AutismWeb www.autismweb.com/education.htm This Web site provides an overview of different educational and treatment approaches for children with autism. IEP-Specific Web sites Council for Exceptional Children www.cec.sped.org The Council for Exceptional Children (CEC) has numerous books about autism and developmental disabilities and IEPs, along with information on professional development and training for teachers. Schwab Learning www.schwablearning.org This Web site provides information on IEPs and managing children with autism in the classroom. Wisconsin FACETS www.wifacets.org/links/iep.htm The Wisconsin Family Assistance Center for Education, Training and Support (Wisconsin FACETS) site offers general information on IEPs as well as publications specific to IEPs and autism. Wrightslaw www.wrightslaw.com This is an in-depth Web site dedicated to providing information on special education law and advocacy issues for children with disabilities. RESOURCES 24 Multimedia AutismVision: Creating Classroom Connections . Silver Spring, MD: Danya International, Inc. Available at www.danya.com /autismvision.asp . This is a multimedia intervention, including a video and facilitator’s guide, educating typical children about autism and promoting positive social interactions toward children with autism. RESOURCES 25 RESOURCES 26 APPENDICES APPENDICES 28 APPENDIX A The following worksheet provides a reproducible template to use when working with families of children with autism. It includes suggestions for important questions to ask families as you prepare for a child with autism in the classroom. APPENDICES 29 APPENDICES 30 Important Questions to Ask Families This worksheet should be used as a template