be considered when faced with the prospect of finding appropriate schooling for your child, and the list only grows longer when the child has an autism spectrum disorder. The classroom environment is very different from any other setting and presents numerous challenges, both academically and socially for the student with autism. The task at hand for parents and teachers, then, is to make the transition to this new environment as smooth and problem-free as possible. To address these issues, we have developed this new guidebook, Life Journey Through Autism: An Educator’s Guide . It is designed to give teachers and other education professionals an introduction to autism, its characteristics, and some of the methods employed in the teaching of students with autism. Each of these topics could merit an entire volume of its own; therefore, this guide is intended to serve as a starting point for parents and educators as they seek to learn more. I would once again like to take this opportunity to thank all those who have worked to put this book together. As with the Parent’s Guide , we at OAR have relied on the knowledge and skills of the team at Danya International to make our vision of an Educator’s Guide a reality, and I thank them for their outstanding efforts. I would also like to thank the members of OAR’s staff and Scientific Council who worked with the Danya team to ensure the Guide would be as complete and informative as possible. A very special thank you also goes out to all the parents, educators, and other professionals who provided comments and feedback that helped us shape the content of the Guide. Your insights proved invaluable as we sought to identify those topics of greatest concern to the community. Thank you. As you read through the Educator’s Guide , it is my hope that this resource will help you as you strive to provide the best possible educational experience for the children with autism in your life. Sincerely, James M. Sack President iv ACKNOWLEDGMENTS This publication is the product of a collaborative effort between the Organization for Autism Research (OAR) and Danya International, Inc. (Danya). OAR is dedicated to providing practical information to those living with the challenges of autism ⎯ individuals, families, educators, and other professionals. Danya is a health communications company committed to shaping healthier futures for children, families, and communities around the world through the creative use of technology and research. For Danya International: Writers Kristen D. Holtz, Ph.D. Amanda K. Ziegert Cynthia D. Baker, Ph.D. Graphics and Layout David Zwack Yen-Wen Chau Suzanne Willis Quality Assurance Kathleen Cooke For OAR: Staff Michael V. Maloney, Executive Director Sarah C. Snow, Project Coordinator In addition to the members of the Board of Directors, Scientific Council, and staff, special thanks goes to the following people for their contribution to the content and editing of the Educator’s Guide : Perry Andrews, Carol Apple, Therese Baldwin, J. R. Bittinger, Ellen Blackburn, Susan Borngesser, Ann Buss,