small changes in the classroom. Your classroom is already a diverse place, including many students with varying backgrounds, talents, difficulties, and interests. With the increasing inclusion of students with autism, the challenges associated with managing a diverse classroom into today’s educational environment will grow. Despite the challenges, your hard work makes a difference in the lives of all the children in the classroom. It is clear, though, that children with autism may need more help and support than some of your typically developing students. The investment of time and energy in the strategies listed above can pay off tenfold ⎯ not only for the child with autism, but also for all the young learners in your school community. SIX-STEP PLAN 18 You will benefit as well. As you learn more about children with differences and how to support their inclusion in the classroom, you will become a mentor to other educators who may be facing this challenge for the first time. Many of the skills that make you a powerful educator will help you succeed in the tasks ahead of you. Your curiosity will fuel your education about autism; your communication skills will help you create a meaningful alliance with the parents of the child with autism in your class. Most of all, your collaboration skills will help you work as a key part of the team that will support the child with autism throughout the course of the school year. Your patience, kindness, and professionalism as an educator can make the difference in a young person’s life! “I learned a lot from my first experience teaching a child with autism, and it has benefited not only how I teach students with autism, but also how I work with all my students.” − General education teacher SIX-STEP PLAN 19 SIX-STEP PLAN 20 RESOURCES Books Ernsperger, L. (2003). Keys to success for teaching students with autism: An easy to follow guide for teachers . Arlington, TX: Future Horizons, Inc. This book features information on creating an effective classroom environment for children with autism, developing curricula, managing problem behaviors, and more. Janzen, J. (2002). Understanding the nature of autism: A guide to the autism spectrum disorders (2 nd ed.). San Antonio: Therapy Skill Builders. This book presents information on autism and its impact on learning, and also provides strategies for education. Kluth, P. (2003). You’re going to love this kid . Baltimore: Paul H. Brookes Publishing Co. This book provides valuable information on teaching students with autism and including them in the classroom. Chapter 1 defines autism and common characteristics of students with autism. Chapter 4 describes specific ways to collaborate with family members. Chapter 5 provides strategies for organizing the classroom for students with autism. Chapter 6 reviews ideas on helping students with autism develop social relationships in the classroom. Chapter 9 provides positive and supportive methods for managing behavior in the classroom. Chapter 11 includes strategies for developing a lesson plan for a student with autism. Koegel, R. L. &