your student will help you effectively manage this behavior and teach your class. You have already started your education by reading this guide. The following pages include a list of characteristics common to children with autism that often affect their classroom performance and success. It will be important to specifically ask families if their child struggles with any of these characteristics and what types of adaptations and accommodations have worked for them in the past. Communication with the family is covered in more detail in Step 2. Your education about autism will evolve throughout the year as your relationship with the family and the student develops, and your knowledge about autism and skills in dealing with its impact on the classroom grows. Maintaining an open stance to learning, working closely with the parents and school team, and trying new things will help you to succeed in the long term. A list of resources is provided at the end of this guide. SIX-STEP PLAN 9 Step 2: Reach Out to the Parents No words can sufficiently emphasize the vital importance of developing a working partnership with the parents of your student with autism. They are your first and best source of information about their child and autism as it manifests itself in that child’s behavior and daily activities . Ideally, this partnership will begin with meetings before the school year. After that, establishing mutually agreed-upon modes and patterns of communication with the family throughout the school year is critical. Your first conversations with the family should focus on the individual characteristics of the student, identifying strengths and areas of challenge. The family may have suggestions for practical accommodations that can be made in the classroom to help the child function at his or her highest potential. In these conversations, it is critical to establish a tone of mutual respect while maintaining realistic expectations for the course of the year. Building trust with the parents is very important. Communication with families about the progress of the student should be ongoing. If possible, schedule a monthly meeting to discuss the child’s progress and any problems he or she may be having. If regular telephone calls or meetings are hard to schedule, you can exchange journals, e-mails, or audiotapes with families. While the information you exchange may often focus on current classroom challenges, strategies employed, and ideas for alternative solutions, do not forget to include positive feedback on accomplishments and milestones reached. Families could respond with their perspective on the problem and their suggestions for solutions. Families can also support you from home in your social and behavioral goals for your student with autism. “If you open the lines of communication with parents at the beginning, they will perhaps be more open to trying new ideas that you might have for their child. I can be a better teacher by learning from my students with ASD and working with their parents.” − General education teacher Open, ongoing communication with families of students with autism