creates a powerful alliance. Be aware that some families may have had negative experiences with other schools or teachers in the past. You will have to help them work through that. If you make the effort to communicate with the family about the progress of their child and listen to their advice and suggestions, they will accept you as their child’s advocate and thus be more likely to give you their complete support. Appendix A in this guide contains a worksheet with suggested questions to ask during your initial meetings with the parents. Also included is an example of a journal that can be used for teachers and parents to communicate with each other daily or weekly regarding the child’s performance and progress. SIX-STEP PLAN 10 Step 3: Prepare the Classroom Having learned about your student with autism’s individual sensitivities and characteristics, you now have the information you need to organize your classroom appropriately. There are ways that you can manipulate the physical aspects of your classroom and ways you can place children with autism within the classroom to make them more comfortable without sacrificing your plans for the class in general. The following table provides advice about how to set up your classroom to address the particular behaviors, sensitivities, and characteristics of your individual student with autism. Tips for Preparing Your Classroom Characteristic Classroom Adaptation Need for sameness and difficulty with transitions ¡ Define classroom areas: Create individual work areas, free time areas, and open areas for discussion using bookcases, cabinets ¡ Keep classroom consistently organized ¡ Choose designated seat for student ¡ Keep daily schedule in one place in classroom ¡ Develop a visual agenda to help the student understand the agenda in advance Problematic or acting-out behavior Comment: As you get to know your student, you should also be analyzing the function of the behavior. If escape is the function, then you would not want to allow the child to “escape” without having accomplished something first or communicating appropriately the need for some self/down time. Preferably, a “break” area should be used prior to a blow up. ¡ Have a recreation area or playground nearby for student to let off steam ¡ Identify a home base area to escape classroom stimulation for a while Easily distracted by sights and sounds ¡ Seat student in low traffic area of classroom ¡ Use carpeting ¡ Face desks away from windows and doors ¡ Designate a home base area to escape classroom stimulation for a while ¡ Teach child when he or she can and cannot use computer; some teachers cover the computer to indicate it’s not time to use it ¡ Seat students away from toys and books ¡ Help child to learn how to handle distractions over time Sensitivity to touch Comment: In some cases, younger children with autism still like to be touched. The parents will be able to help you understand their child’s sensitivity in this regard. ¡ Avoid touching student initially ¡ Teach tolerance to