things (maps, dates, coins, numbers/statistics, train schedules) ¡ Unusual repetitive behavior, verbal as well as nonverbal (hand flapping, rocking) ¡ Unusual sensitivity to sensations – may be more or less than typical students ¡ Difficulty with transitions, need for sameness ¡ Possible aggressive, disruptive, or self-injurious behavior; unaware of possible dangers How Does Autism Affect a Child? Because of their disorder, children with autism have certain sensitivities and needs that most other children do not experience. Below are just a few examples of challenges that some students with autism may experience: ¡ Spoken Language and Communication: The fundamental problem in communication lies in the inability to recognize that needs, desires, thoughts, feelings, etc., can be communicated as seen by the fact that there is usually no attempt to use other means of communication (e.g., gestures) in the absence of verbal language. Children with autism may have difficulty with spoken language or BACKGROUND 4 recognizing that their thoughts and feelings can be shared or communicated with another. Some will have limited speech, while others may use communication devices, sign language, or written language to communicate. Some children with autism may engage in echolalia ⎯ repeating a phrase they just heard ⎯ without understanding the meaning or the desired response. Echolalia may also be a way for the student to express frustration, ask for help, or communicate that he or she is not enjoying the activity at hand. The display of echolalia can be immediate or delayed. ¡ Need for Sameness and Difficulty With Transitions: Many children with autism like things to stay the same and have a need for structure in their lives that far exceeds that of typically developing students. Leaving home to attend school, for example, is one of the earliest and most challenging transitions the child with autism will experience. A similar challenge recurs at vacation time, the end of the school year, and at the next “back to school” time. Transitions from one activity to the next may also be challenging for children with autism. Within school, the changes from classroom to other settings ⎯ the library, cafeteria, gym, playground, assembly, or special classes ⎯ all pose potential challenges for some children with autism. They may get very upset at the slightest change, such as when someone else occupies “their” seat or when a field trip makes them miss a daily class. “Other children do not sense that my son is different from them, but I suspect the day will come when they do. I want people to know that my son and other people with autism are thoughtful, caring, interesting people who sometimes need a little more help or support. That’s why parents, teachers, peers, and the community should work together to help.” − Parent of a 6-year-old boy with autism ¡ Sensory Sensitivities: Generally, many children with autism have a more heightened sensitivity to sensory inputs than typical students. These differences in vision, hearing, smell, taste, touch, and other sensations can affect the students’ ability