for a student with autism. APPENDICES 41 APPENDICES 42 Developing Objective and Measurable IEP Goals for Learners with Autism As mentioned previously in this guide, the Individualized Education Program (IEP) is a very important tool to help your student with autism achieve his or her full potential in your classroom. Federal rules and regulations indicate that every IEP must have six components, including: ¡ Statement of the student’s current level of performance ¡ Statement of annual goals, including short-term instructional objectives ¡ Appropriate objective criteria and evaluation procedures and schedules for determining (at least annually) whether short-term objectives are being met ¡ Statement of the specific educational and related services (e.g., speech, OT/PT, transportation) to be provided to the student ¡ Projected dates for the start of the services, along with how long they will be provided ¡ Statement identifying the extent to which the student will be able to participate in general education classes, and any modifications or accommodations necessary to enable that participation As a general education teacher, your greatest area for input in the IEP process will be in two areas: (1) You will participate in the development and implementation of individual, specific educational goals, and objectives; and (2) You will complete an ongoing assessment of student progress toward meeting these milestones. Developing goals and objectives that are clearly stated, objectively determined (based on student’s need), and accurately measured is essential to success. While goals may be more broadly stated ( In Math, Jim will learn addition and subtraction using carrying and borrowing. ), the objectives associated with the goal present the clear steps by which this goal might best be attained ( When presented with 10 double-digit addition problems involving carrying, Jim will complete all problems with 90 percent accuracy within 10 minutes. Jim will be able to complete this task at this level for 2 consecutive days.) . Such clearly defined objectives are generally referred to as behavioral objectives . In general, a good behavioral objective must: ¡ Identify the learner ¡ Identify the specific skill or behavior targeted for increase ¡ Identify the conditions under which the skill or behavior is to be displayed ¡ Identify criteria for competent performance Each of these components will be discussed in turn below. APPENDICES 43 Identify the Learner In most cases, it will be a simple matter to identify the learner (e.g., “Jim will…” or “Susan will…”). However, more than one learner may be identified in a behavioral objective (e.g., “Jim and Susan will…”), and this needs to be clearly stated. Identify the Specific Skill or Behavior Targeted for Increase In identifying the specific skill or behavior targeted for increase, you are, in effect, clearly stating exactly what the learner is expected to be doing when the objective is met. This requires a precise description of skill in terms that are both observable and measurable. In the previous example, the overall goal was stated as: In math, Jim will learn addition and subtraction using carrying and borrowing