the characteristics vary significantly among different children with autism. No two children with autism are the same. Significantly more boys than girls are affected with autism by a ratio of approximately 4:1. Children with autism are found in all cultures and social and economic groups. Autism is one of five Pervasive Developmental Disorders (PDD) that vary in the severity of symptoms, age of onset, and association with other disorders like mental retardation. Other PPDs include Asperger Syndrome (or Disorder), Rett’s Disorder, Childhood Disintegrative Disorder, and Pervasive Developmental Disorder - Not Otherwise Specified (PDD-NOS). The term, Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASD), which is frequently used in literature and professional discussion of autism, is not a medical term and is usually used to describe three of the disorders, Autism, Asperger Syndrome, and PDD-NOS, because these three disorders share common characteristics that can be manifested on a continuum from mild to severe. Rett’s Disorder and Disintegrative Disorder are very different, both being regressive, although they are “pervasive” in that they affect a child across all developmental domains, and they are developmental in that they occur early in a child’s development and affect the course of a child’s development. Children with these two disorders usually have significant cognitive and developmental problems across all domains. Children with Asperger Syndrome have, by definition, normal intelligence, where children with Autism or PDD-NOS can have a range of intellectual functioning from below to above normal. This guide specifically focuses on teaching children with autism in an elementary school (K − 6) setting. It does not address issues in teaching children with Asperger Syndrome or the other disorders on the autism spectrum. Please consult other resources for information on teachin g those children as well as older children and adolescents with autism. BACKGROUND 3 What Does Autism Look Like? As mentioned above, the core characteristics of autism fall into three categories: differences in reciprocal social interactions, communication, and behavior. The following chart includes some examples of the types of characteristics that a child with autism may exhibit that potentially will impact their participation in the classroom. As emphasized previously, however, every child with autism is unique and may show some, many, or none of these behaviors. Some Common Characteristics Seen in Persons With Autism Challenges With Social Interactions: ¡ Challenges interpreting nonverbal language ¡ Difficulty with pretend play ¡ Rigid adherence to rules ¡ Poor eye gaze or avoidance of eye contact ¡ Few facial expressions and trouble understanding the facial expressions of others ¡ Poor judge of personal space – may stand too close to other students ¡ Trouble controlling emotions and anxieties ¡ Difficulty understanding another person’s perspective or how their own behavior affects others Communication Challenges ¡ Often delayed in expressive and receptive language; may not speak at all ¡ Very literal understanding of speech; difficulty in picking up on nuances ¡ Echolalia – may repeat last words heard without regard for meaning ¡ Lack of pretend play Behavior Differences ¡ Unusually intense or restricted interests in