Life Journey Through Autism: An Educator’s Guide to Autism O rganizati O n f O r a utism r esearch Notice to Readers May 1, 2015 This is the final reprint of Life Journey Through Autism: An Educator's Guide to Autism. Since publishing this resource guide in 2004, the Organization for Autism Research (OAR) has distributed more than 10,000 copies to teachers, autism professionals, and other interested consumers in the autism community. In reading this edition, please be aware that some statistical information, notably the prevalence rate of autism currently estimated at 1 in 68 births, has changed dramatically since 2004, when it was estimated at 1 in 166 births. That aside, the content of this guide remains current and g ermane. Life Journey Through Autism: An Educator’s Guide by 8737 Colesville Road, Suite 1200 Silver Spring, MD 20910 (301) 565-2142 www.danya.com and Organization for Autism Research 2000 N . 14th St reet , Suite 71 0 Arlington, VA 22201 ( 866 ) 366 - 9710 www.researchautism.org This publication is designed to provide accurate and authoritative information concerning the subject matter covered. It is published with the understanding that the Organization for Autism Research, Inc., is not engaged in the rendering of legal, medical, or other professional services. If legal, medical, or other expert advice or assistance is required, the services of a competent professional should be sought. Copyright © 2004 Organization for Autism Research, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this work may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying and recording, or by any information storage or retrieval system without the prior written consent of the Organization for Autism Research, Inc., unless such copying is expressly permitted by Federal copyright law. Address all inquiries to the Organization for Autism Research, Inc., 2000 N. 14th Street , Suite 710 , Arlington, VA 22201. www.researchautism.org ii ORGANIZATION FOR AUTISM RESEARCH Research and resources that help families today! October 2004 Dear Educators, In the beginning of 2003, OAR published its first guidebook titled Life Journey Through Autism: A Parent’s Guide to Research . This book serves as an introduction to the world of autism research for parents of children newly diagnosed with an autism spectrum disorder. Since its publication last year, we have provided nearly 2,000 copies of this resource to parents, families, and professionals free of charge, and we continue to do so. It was always our intent to build on this resource and explore new topics of interest to the autism community. Since the Parent’s Guide was published last year, we have spoken with scores of parents, teachers, and autism professionals about the myriad challenges faced daily by those living with autism and their families. Over and over again, education has emerged as a topic of great concern. As a parent of four children, two of whom have autism, I know how difficult it can be to make sure your child gets the best education possible. Many things must