implement the approaches suggested in the guide. The table below lists some common barriers you might encounter over the course of the school year, as well as suggestions for dealing with them. Potential Solutions for Success Challenge Potential Solutions Frustrated, uncooperative, or angry parents Parents of children with autism have had to learn a lot about autism on their own and, in many cases, have had to fight for their children in various settings. You may find them wary, guarded, defensive, and perhaps combative, depending on their past experiences with schools and teachers. If you experience this challenge, it has nothing to do with you. Recognize that the frustration you are seeing revolves around those prior negative experiences. You will win them over by demonstrating your willingness to learn about autism and your positive approach to teaching their child. ¡ Try to remain neutral and diffuse the situation. ¡ Reassure the parents that you have their child’s best interest in mind and that you are doing as much as you can, given your other obligations to the rest of the class. ¡ Increase communication and be particularly mindful to listen to and discuss the parent’s concerns. If the situation does not improve, do not hesitate to call in a neutral third party to moderate the discussion; the other team members should work with you to respond to the parents’ concerns. SIX-STEP PLAN 17 Challenge Potential Solutions Unsympathetic administrators Developing an IEP and appropriate accommodations for a child with autism is the school’s legal obligation. That does not mean that either is easy to accomplish or that they command the attention of your school administrators, who must contend with many, and often competing, priorities: ¡ As one of the best approaches, emphasize that the accommodations you make now will save time and provide a benefit in the long run. ¡ Possibly mention the additional positive outcomes that you anticipate from making these accommodations : decreased stress for you, a more supportive learning environment for the other students in the classroom, and new learning opportunities for everyone. Again, the other team members can help you create an alliance to actualize these changes. Time constraints Today’s school day and classroom curricula present very real time constraints, but there are ways to simply incorporate information about autism and to support your student during the course of a normal day: ¡ Possibly conduct peer education about autism as part of a disability awareness week or through oral and written assignments in various subject areas throughout the year. ¡ Use teachable moments in the classroom to reinforce acceptance. ¡ In your professional pursuits, look for relevant training opportunities that will satisfy your continuing education or professional development requirements while at the same time advancing your knowledge and skills related to teaching children with autism and related developmental disabilities. ¡ Do not try to do it all yourself; learn to delegate, when appropriate, and rely on the team members, particularly the educational aide, to help you enact