or her for learning outside the controlled learning environment, where more natural learning opportunities occur. As a teacher working with a student with autism, you will find it helpful to use positive reinforcement techniques to promote the child’s progress toward communication, academic, and social goals. You will be an important part of a comprehensive team supporting the student with autism both at home and in the school. In addition to the child’s parents and you, this team will include special and general education teachers, speech and language therapists, occupational therapists, educational aides, school psychologists, and social workers. Also, other people may be working with students outside of school ⎯ therapists to work on problem behaviors, speech/language therapists to address communication difficulties, and psychiatrists or neurologists to manage medications and medical problems. Families of students with autism could also be participating in therapy to support the child, as well as engaging in ABA to reinforce skills at home. The education and treatment of a child with autism has many facets. BACKGROUND 6 It is important to have frequent communication within the in-school team about progress and struggles the student is having. The team should also regularly consult the family for their perspectives on classroom issues, and the outside therapists and medical professionals concerning their areas of expertise. The perspective and thoughts of these additional professionals and family members should serve as a great help in brainstorming ideas for adaptations and accommodations for the student with autism. BACKGROUND 7 BACKGROUND 8 SIX-STEP PLAN Following the six-step plan, detailed below, will help prepare you for the entrance of a child with autism in your classroom, as well as foster inclusion throughout the school. The steps are as follows: (1) educate yourself; (2) reach out to the parents; (3) prepare the classroom; (4) educate peers and promote social goals; (5) collaborate on the implementation of an educational program; and (6) manage behavioral challenges. Step 1: Educate Yourself As the person responsible for the education and behavior management of all your students, including a child with autism, you must have a working understanding of autism and its associated behaviors. Different behaviors are very much a part of autism. When children with autism do not respond to the use of language or act out in class, it is typically not because they are ignoring you, trying to clown around, or waste class time. These behaviors may be more related to their autism, and they may be having difficulty interpreting language and expressing their needs in socially acceptable ways. It is important to find ways to create a comfortable environment for your students with autism so that they can participate meaningfully in the classroom. “Students with autism benefit from organization and structure. The teacher who has invested in providing an organized and structured environment for the student will not only provide a better learning environment, but also feel more relaxed and competent.” − Autism program specialist Learning about autism in general and about the specific characteristics of