to concentrate. For example, fluorescent classroom lights may bother a child with autism so much that he or she cannot complete an assignment. Children with autism may also cover their ears or hum to filter out distracting classroom noises. Naturally, an unexpected fire drill, a noise loud enough to bother the ears of typically developing students, may greatly alarm and/or cause pain in a child with autism. While you may not be able to alleviate the sensitivities, you need to be aware of them and strive to help the child learn how to handle these everyday experiences if he or she is to function in life. This is an area where collaboration with the parents and the school team can be very helpful. The traits listed above are commonly seen in children with autism but are not exclusive to the disorder. If you observe a child in your class exhibiting similar traits who does not have a diagnosis of autism, you should talk to the child’s parents and the school psychologist, counselor, or a special educator about y our concerns and consider referrin g this child for a com p rehensive develo p mental evaluation. BACKGROUND 5 Educational Approaches Generally speaking, the educational goals for elementary school-age children with autism will include developing cognitive and academic skills, supporting communication and language development, and encouraging appropriate social behavior. As the child grows older, supplementary skills will be added to the child’s lesson plans as they become developmentally appropriate. For instance, self-help skills and vocational training are important abilities students with autism should learn as they enter middle and high school. Applied Behavioral Analysis (ABA) is an educational approach that is often used successfully for the education of children with autism. ABA is based on the premise that behaviors are learned and can, therefore, be shaped through the systematic application of behavioral principles. Discrete Trial Teaching is a method that incorporates the principles of ABA and is used to teach new skills by breaking them down into small parts and providing multiple opportunities to learn or practice the skills. Corrective feedback is provided, and correct behaviors or responses are reinforced. The reinforcement systems set up by teachers of children with autism are highly personalized. The rewards may be very concrete and involve things that interest them, such as tokens or time to play with a favorite toy. These tangible rewards should always include the delivery of praise, smiles, or other positive social gestures. Children with autism may not learn what the appropriate behavior is for different situations as easily and quickly as their typical developing peers. ABA is a concrete and clear way for children with autism to learn behaviors they will need in the classroom and later in life. It is important to stress that, early in the child’s program, he or she should be taught how to observe and imitate the behavior of others, besides that of the instructor. This type of learning experience, observation learning , will prepare him