touch SIX-STEP PLAN 11 Characteristic Classroom Adaptation Sensitivity to smells (Wet shoes of classmate, hand lotion, musty locker, hamster cage, rubber cement) ¡ Avoid using perfumes or heavy lotions ¡ Seat student near open door or open window in rooms with strong smells (art room) ¡ Ask custodians to order and use unscented cleaning supplies Sensitivity to sounds (Air conditioner, shuffling of feet, scratching of pencils, certain tones of music) ¡ Move student away from sounds ¡ Use soft voice when possible ¡ Have student use earplugs or comfortable headphones (when appropriate) ¡ Install carpeting or carpet remnants ¡ Put material under desk legs ¡ Prepare student for sounds (before bell rings, fire drills) ¡ Gradually teach tolerance to sounds Sensitivity to light, particularly fluorescent lights ¡ Lower levels of light ¡ Turn off overhead lights ¡ Try different colors of light ¡ Have student use sunglasses or baseball cap ¡ Move student’s seat from reflections on wall ¡ Use bulbs that do not flicker Of course, there are practical limitations on how much you can modify the physical characteristics of your classroom. Nonetheless, even a few accommodations to support the child with autism may have remarkable short- and long-term benefits. A schematic in the back of this guide provides a visual representation of the “ideal” classroom for a child with autism. Be sure to modify these suggestions based on feedback from the child’s parents so that they are appropriately tailored. Step 4: Educate Peers and Promote Social Goals Perhaps the most common myth about children with autism is that they do not have the ability, motivation, or desire to establish and maintain meaningful relationships with others, including friendships with peers. This, for the most part, is not true. There is no doubt that children with autism have social deficits and communication or language delays that make it more difficult for them to establish friendships than typically developing children. However, with appropriate assistance, children with autism can engage with peers and establish mutually enjoyable and lasting interpersonal relationships. It is critical that teachers of children with autism believe this to be true and expect students with autism to make and maintain meaningful relationships with the adults and other children in the classroom. Clearly stated social skills, behaviors, and objectives should be part of the IEP and assessed regularly for progress. SIX-STEP PLAN 12 As the teacher of a child with autism in a general education classroom, the most important task you have is to create a social environment in which positive interactions between the child with autism and his or her typically developing peers are facilitated throughout the day. This will not happen without your active support. Perhaps the most powerful tool to creating a positive environment and increasing positive social interactions between the child with autism and his or her peers is to educate the typically developing peers about the child’s disorder . Research shows that typically developing peers have more positive attitudes, increased understanding, and greater acceptance of