challenge for children with autism ⎯ are fundamental building blocks. Thus, going to school is a huge transition for these children; assimilating them smoothly into the classroom and school is your challenge as a teacher. INTRODUCTION 1 This guide is the first step in your education about autism. It is not meant to be a comprehensive resource on all aspects of autism ⎯ every child you meet with this disorder will be different, and therefore your ways of supporting their classroom experience will be highly personalized. However, this guide can orient you to the main issues in inclusive education for children with autism, providing a framework for organizing your future learning on this topic. More specifically, the goals of this guide are to: ¡ Educate you and help you prepare for having a student with autism in your classroom. The guide begins with background information on the characteristics of autism, a description of the range of behaviors a child with autism might display, and a brief description of educational approaches and relevant legislation. ¡ Emphasize the critical importance of communication and collaboration with the parents of your student with autism. Each child with autism is different. The parents are your best source of information on the child’s behavioral issues and the strategies and treatments that are effective. As much as any student you teach, the child with autism will benefit most when the teacher and parents are on the same page and efforts in the home and at school become mutually supporting. ¡ Support the creation of an inclusive environment for all the learners in your classroom. This guide provides suggestions on how to talk to typically developing peers about their classmate with autism and discusses how to organize the classroom to support different learners. ¡ Help you collaborate with the team supporting the child with autism: Special educators, therapists, administrators, and the parents, must work together as a team to maximize the educational experience for your student with autism. This guide emphasizes this collaborative approach to educating the child with autism as well as the importance of the Individualized Education Program (IEP). The heart of this document is a six-step plan you and your team can use to prepare for the inclusion of a child with autism in your classroom. The six steps are simple and highly flexible ⎯ think of them as continuing and often concurrent actions. Each of these steps is supported and amplified by the resources provided in the Resource Listing that begins on page 21. INTRODUCTION 2 BACKGROUND What is Autism? As previously defined, autism is a neurological disorder that typically appears by 3 years of age. The symptoms of autism involve three major areas of development and impact a child’s abilities to: ¡ Engage in reciprocal social interactions with others ¡ Communicate with others in developmentally appropriate ways ¡ Participate in a range of activities and behaviors typical of the child’s age and stage of development One of the hallmarks of autism is that