children with autism when provided with clear, accurate, and straightforward information about the disorder. When educated about autism and specific strategies for how to effectively interact with children with autism, they are more likely to have frequent and positive social interactions with them. “Kids with autism can and do want friends. But friendship means something totally different to my son with autism. Although he’s curious about people, he doesn’t know how to make the first move. So that means being friends with someone with autism also means being patient ⎯ and sometimes trying over and over again before you get a response.” − Parent of an 8-year-old boy with autism A useful resource for teachers desiring to educate students about autism and prepare them for a child with autism joining the class is AutismVision: Creating Classroom Connections . This is a multimedia intervention that educates typical children about autism and promotes positive social interactions toward children with autism through an educational video and various group exercises and activities. Resources like this serve to encourage more accepting attitudes about the child with autism, which in turn will promote social interactions and help students feel more comfortable in the general education classroom. Information for how to obtain AutismVision is included at the end of this guide. Teaching Points About Autism for Elementary School Students ¡ Children with autism are first and foremost children ; they are like your typical students in many ways. ¡ They experience the world very differently. Sights, sounds, tastes, and feelings that seem normal to us might be scary and overwhelming for a child with autism. Conversely, they may not recognize danger or experience fear like your typically developing students do. ¡ Children with autism need and want friends. ¡ Understanding autism is the key to creating connections. ¡ Children with autism have their own way of communicating ⎯ it’s almost like a different language. ¡ Autism is NOT contagious; no one catches it. Nor does anyone die from having autism. ¡ Children with autism do have feelings and often understand more than they can express. No one should ever tease or make fun of someone with autism. ¡ When a child with autism feels included, everyone in the classroom can learn and grow! SIX-STEP PLAN 13 In addition to educating peers, teachers should promote acceptance of the child with autism as a full member and integral part of the class, even if that student only attends class for a few hours a week. It is also important to create an atmosphere in which teasing, name-calling, and intimidation are not allowed. Because children with autism have difficulties in socialization and in understanding language (slang) and social cues, they can easily become targets of bullies or other insensitive people. Bullying should not be tolerated in any school environment. Many of the social interactions occur outside the classroom in the cafeteria and on the playground. Without prior planning and extra help, students with autism may end up sitting by themselves