regular school, or participate in regular gym and lunch only). Modified Checklist of Autism in Toddlers (MCHAT) is a screening tool for identifying toddlers who may be referred to specialist for further testing. Motor deficits are physical skills that a person cannot perform or has difficulty performing. Neurologist refers to a doctor specializing in medical problems associated with the nervous system, specifically the brain and spinal cord. Nonverbal behaviors convey information or express emotions without words, including eye gaze, facial expressions, body postures, and gestures. Occupational therapy (OT) assists development of motor skills that aid in daily living. OT may focus on sensory issues, coordination of movement, balance, and self-help skills such as dressing, eating with a fork, grooming, etc. May address visual perception and hand-eye coordination. Pervasive Developmental Disorder (PDD) used to be considered a subtype of autism, but is no longer used in the medical setting. Physical therapy helps patients regain or improve their physical abilities. Pica is persistent eating or mouthing of non-food substances for at least 1 month (older than 18–24 months). Substances may include items such as clay, dirt, pebbles, hair, plastic, etc. Picture Exchange Communication System (PECS) is a communication system using picture symbols. Individuals learn to use picture symbols to construct complete sentences, initiate communication, and answer questions. 42 Autism Clinic|tel503-494-8811|fax503-418-5199 Pivotal Response Treatment (PRT) is a therapy that helps change unwanted behaviors. Receptive language is the ability to comprehend words and sentences. Reinforcement or reinforcer is a reward given after a desired behavior. Relationship Development Intervention (RDI) is a therapy based on building positive behaviors through social connection that normally develop in infancy and early childhood. Respite care is temporary, short-term care provided to individuals with disabilities. Respite care allows caregivers to take a break in order to relieve stress and fatigue. Self-regulation refers to self-control. Self-regulation helps individuals manage their emotions and behaviors, and to allow us to participate successfully in society, work, and family life. Sensory defensiveness is a tendency to over-react negatively to sensory input. Also called hypersensitivity. Sensory integration is the way the brain processes sensory stimulation or sensation from the body and then translates that information into specific, planned, coordinated motor activity. Sensory integration dysfunction is a neurological difference causing difficulties processing information rom the senses and positional sense (proprioception). Sensory information may be sensed normally, but perceived abnormally. Sensory integration therapy is used to improve ability to use incoming sensory information. Sleep hygiene refers to habits and environmental factors important for sound sleep, such as adjusting noise, light and temperature, avoiding naps and caffeine. Social reciprocity is the back-and-forth flow of social interaction between people. Social stories are simple stories that describe situations that may be difficult for a person with ASD to understand. For example, a social story might be written about birthday parties if a child appears to have a difficult time understanding what is expected of him or how he is supposed to behave there. Social worker is a trained specialist in the