like every individual deals with ASD differently. They may not have received all of the information that you have. Sometimes parents choose to wait until they are more comfortable with ASD before talking about it with friends or family. Other people who love you and your child may also feel overwhelmed, angry or confused. Encourage them to: • Be respectful and supportive of the decisions you are making for your child. • Learn more about ASD. • Follow the routines and systems that your child is used to. • Find a support group for themselves. 12 Autism Clinic|tel503-494-8811|fax503-418-5199 I was diagnosed with Asperger’s Syndrome at age 36. It was a joyful occasion — it helped me finally stop trying to be normal. The more I learned about ASDs (Autism Spectrum Disorders), the better I was able to adapt myself to life in a functional and enjoyable way. It turns out that being weird is not only functional, it’s really fun. I researched ASDs in earnest. I interviewed parents, teachers, OTs, and psychologists, neurologists — you name it. What I found is that an awful lot of those well-meaning adults were busily working “against the grain” of AS/Autism. They were frustrated and tired too! In the hope of saving a few parents and teachers some of that time, energy and pain, I have come up with a list of “suggestions” for them. These come from the heart of an Aspie who really likes the strange creatures we call “typical.” — Jennifer Mcllwee Myers 13 www.ohsudoernbecher.com Please don’t try to make us “normal.” We’d much rather be functional. It’s hard to be functional when you have to spend all your time and energy focusing on making eye contact and not tapping your feet. Please don’t overprotect, indulge, or cosset us. We already have enough social problems without additionally learning to be spoiled and self-indulgent. Don’t teach us social skills according to how you wish the world was, or even how you think it is. Look carefully at what is really going on and teach us real world rules. Don’t talk and/or act as if your life would be perfect or soooo much easier if you had a “normal” child. We don’t thrive on knowing that we are the children you didn’t want. Don’t make the mistake of thinking that teaching us typical behaviors and successful masking means we are “cured.” Please remember that the more typical our behavior seems, the harder we are working. What is natural, simple behavior to you is a constant intense effort for us. Please don’t punish us with rewards or reward us with punishments. For those of us who find recess to be the most stressful part of school, any action that will keep us in from recess is one we will learn to repeat ad infinitum. Getting rewarded for good behavior with fashionable but really itchy clothing will train us to NOT behave too well! If you assiduously train us to imitate and conform to other