children’s behavior, don’t be shocked if we learn to curse, whine for popular toys, dress in ways you don’t like, and eventually drink, smoke, and attempt to seek out sex as teenagers. Those “nice kids” you think so highly of do a lot of things you don’t know about — or don’t you remember high school? Jennifer’s Suggestions 14 Autism Clinic|tel503-494-8811|fax503-418-5199 Please do give us information about ASD/Asperger’s early on at a level we can digest. We need to know what’s going on — and we will figure out that something is “wrong” with us whether you tell us or not. Don’t avoid a diagnosis or help for us because you are scared of us being labeled. Without that diagnosis and appropriate support, our teachers, family, and fellow students will give us plenty of labels — and we might just believe them if we hear them often enough Don’t force us to do things we can’t do. A forced social situation won’t teach us social skills any more than dumping us in the middle of the Pacific Ocean will teach us to swim. Don’t punish us for what other kids do. The fact that other kids tease and torture us for benign “Autistic” behaviors doesn’t mean we need to change, it means they do. Needing to bounce or swing for the whole recess is not morally wrong; tormenting someone for having a neurological disability is. Don’t attempt to use humiliation or public embarrassment to “teach us a lesson.” We get way too much of that from other people, and the only lesson learned is that we can’t trust you either. Do punish us (or give us “consequences,” heaven help us) when it is necessary to do so – but make the connection between cause and effect very, very clear. We often need visual aids to understand how our behavior can cause an unwanted result for us! Don’t cut us too much slack when our behavior is potentially dangerous to us. For example, adolescent pre-stalking behavior should result in serious consequences — because not treating such behavior seriously when we are young can lead to problems involving law enforcement when we’re older! 15 www.ohsudoernbecher.com Don’t trust untrained camp counselors, “typical peers,” or youth pastors to be able to deal with Asperger’s. Often their answers to our problems involve highly destructive phrases like “try harder,” “you could do it if you really wanted to,” and “snap out of it.” Don’t model one thing and teach another. If you yell or hit when you’re mad, we will too. If you rage at us, don’t be shocked at our “Autistic rages.” And DON’T lecture us about our stims while you smoke, tap your foot, pick at your manicure and down your third double latte today. Don’t require us to be wildly successful at something because your ego has been wounded by having a “flawed” child. We can’t all be Temple Grandin. Remember, all honest work is noble, even if you can’t brag about us