and other forms of expression. Free Appropriate Public Education (FAPE) means that education must be provided to all children ages three to twenty-one at public expense. Floortime is a developmental intervention for children with an ASD. Fragile X is a genetic disorder that sometimes shares characteristics of ASD. It is generally recommended that individuals receiving a diagnosis of ASD be tested for Fragile X. Gastroenterologist doctors specialize in disorders of the Gl tract, including esophagus, stomach, small intestine, large intestine, pancreas, liver, gallbladder and biliary system. General education is a series of “regular education” courses in multiple subjects taught to the same grade level. Geneticist refers to a medical doctor who specializes in genetic problems. Gestures are hand and head movements, used to signal communication non-verbally to someone else (such as a give, reach, wave, point, or head shake). Global Developmental Delay (GDD) is diagnosis in children younger than 6. It means the development is delayed in several areas. Hyperlexia is the ability to read at an early age. To be hyperlexic, a child does not need to understand what he or she is reading. Glossary of Autism-Related Terms 41 www.ohsudoernbecher.com Hypotonia is a term that means low muscle tone. Incidental teaching teaches a child new skills while in their home or community “in the moment,” to help make sense of what they learn during formal teaching. Individual Family Service Plan (IFSP) is developed by a team including family as primary participant. It is a plan that helps identify goals and a process to meet those goals. Individualized Education Program (IEP) identifies student’s specific learning needs, how school will meet them, and methods to review progress. For students 14 & older, the IEP must contain a plan to transition to postsecondary education or the workplace, or to help the student live as independently as possible in the community. Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) is the US law mandating the “Free and Public Education” of all persons with disabilities between ages 3 and 21. Inclusion involves educating all children in regular classrooms with typically developing peers, regardless of disability. Intellectual Disability describes limitations in mental functioning that cause an individual to develop more slowly. They may take longer to learn to speak, walk, and take care of personal needs such as dressing or eating, and are likely to have trouble learning in school. May be mild to severe and was previously referred to as mental retardation. Joint attention is the process of sharing an experience with another person, often observable by following gaze or pointing gestures. Impairment in joint attention is a core deficit of ASD. Least Restrictive Environment (LRE) a setting that least restricts opportunities for child with disabilities to be with peers without disabilities. The law mandates that every child with a disability be educated in a Least Restrictive Environment. Mainstreaming means students are expected to participate in existing regular education classess. It may be a gradual, partial, or part-time process (e.g., student may attend separate classes within