in brain development happen very early. ASD rates are similar across ethnic and racial groups around the world, so it is widely accepted that it is not caused by specific environmental or medical factors. Anger It is very hard to watch your child struggle with things that come naturally to other children. Sometimes you might feel angry at others, your spouse, yourself, or anger that is not directed at anyone in particular. This is a natural part of the process. Even years from now, there will be times when things seem so unfair it will make you angry. Many times others do not understand that you are hurting or that you may need support. It can be very helpful to talk to other individuals and parents who have similar experiences. Loneliness This can often come and go for individuals and for parents whose child has a disability. It may seem that no one can understand or that others don’t have to go through the same struggles. Others who do not experience a disability or have a child with a disability may find it hard to grasp what you are going through. It may be up to you to tell them what it is like so they can support you. Acceptance Periods of acceptance may mean that you can appreciate the reality of living with ASD, and are also ready to advocate for what you or your family needs. Acceptance is an ongoing process, not an end stage. Autism Speaks (www.autismspeaks.org) created a number of free downloadable toolkits for family members about topics like sleep, supporting siblings, managing tantrums, and more. 11 www.ohsudoernbecher.com Individuals Learning that you have autism as a teenager or adult can be a lot to take in. It is important that you find others to talk to about your diagnosis and what it might mean for you. It does not mean that you are all of the sudden limited by your new label. Hopefully it will instead give you tools to better understand what “makes you tick” and will help you thrive. You are still the same person with the same potential. Understanding what works well for you, and seeking out help for things that are hard for you, will be important. Don’t be afraid to work with a therapist or mental health professional to help you come up with specific strategies that work for you. Siblings Siblings of a child with ASD often have their own set of questions, stressors and challenges. It is important that you attend to their needs too, and take time alone with them. They can easily be overshadowed by the demands of their sibling with ASD and may benefit from their own therapies or special times with you. It can be helpful to find activities that siblings can enjoy together. Autism Speaks had a booklet that you can download that is specifically for siblings (www.autismspeaks.org). Family members Others in your family will respond to a new diagnosis in different ways, just