parent can be designated as the representative payee although that does not confer separate legal rights such as guardianship. A person receiving SSI or other Social Security program can be employed in specific circumstances. Please contact SSA for more information as there are several programs and the requirements can be complex. For more information on Social Security disability programs, see: https://www.ssa.gov/disabilityssi/ 4. Support services for adults - At age 18, the person on the autism spectrum transitions into adult support services, which can continue to be through the county Developmental Disability (DD) services or be provided through brokerage support services. These services are designed to help a person with a developmental disability live in their own home or with family or friends and fully participate in community life, including work. a. To be eligible, the person must have a confirmed DD diagnosis, not be receiving comprehensive services, and be eligible for DD Services. For a list of local DD program offices go to: www.oregon.gov/DHS/dd/county/county_programs. shtml or call your local County DD Program Office, or call 28 Autism Clinic|tel503-494-8811|fax503-418-5199 1-800-282-8096. If the disabled person does not already have DD Services, try to apply before his or her 22nd birthday, as it’s much easier. b. Comprehensive Services such as residential services, group homes, and foster homes are different as they provide 24 hour supports. Enrolling in Support Services for Adults will not hurt the chances of accessing Comprehensive Services or any other service a person with ASD may need in the future. c. Your adult child can receive services through either the county DD Services or through a Support Brokerage. This is a change from years past when services for adults were only through the Support Brokerages. The person receiving services can chose to move from county services to Brokerage services (and back) at any time, although some Brokerages have waitlists. d. Services through a brokerage are provided by your Personal Agent (PA). Services through the county are provided by your Service Coordinator (SC). Services are provided based on need as determined by an Adult Needs Assessment. From there, an Individual Support Plan (ISP) will be prepared to help the person function as independently as possible at home and in the community. The person receiving services can change their PA or SC at any time. e. An adult can hire his or her parents as Personal Support Workers, but NOT if the parent is the legal guardian of the disabled person because it’s a conflict of interest. Instead, a third party would need to be appointed to make that decision. 5. Education – If the person on the autism spectrum graduates with a regular high school diploma, they are no more educational services available. However, graduation with a modified diploma means the person is eligible for transition services until the end of the school year when they turn 21 years old. 29 www.ohsudoernbecher.com 6. Vocational rehabilitation – This is a state agency that helps people with disabilities find and keep appropriate employment.