not get to observe during appointments. Defining the Spectrum 18 Autism Clinic|tel503-494-8811|fax503-418-5199 Understanding ASD ASD is a developmental disability that is caused by the way the brain develops. Symptoms of ASD appear during early childhood (although they may not result in a diagnosis until later), and include significant challenges in a person’s ability to relate to and communicate with other people. The medical criteria for diagnosing Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) is based on the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition (DSM-5). A major change from the earlier fourth edition is that ASD is now considered a single spectrum, rather than several sub-types (like PDD-NOS, Asperger’s Disorder, and Autistic Disorder). The reason for this change is that research over the past decades has shown that the core symptoms in each subtype were actually similar and shifted in intensity over time. Because ASD is defined by a common set of core behaviors, it is best represented as a single diagnosis. It is important to know that anyone diagnosed with any type of ASD before this change should still meet the new criteria for ASD. 19 www.ohsudoernbecher.com The following describes the symptoms a child must demonstrate to be diagnosed with ASD: Difficulties with social interaction and communication (across settings): • Social-emotional reciprocity (sharing interests or emotions, pointing out objects, initiating social situations, back and forth conversation) • Using and understanding nonverbal communication (eye contact, facial expressions, gestures, body-language, combining verbal and nonverbal efforts) • Making and keeping age-typical social relationships (showing interest in others, sharing imaginative play, adjusting behavior to match situations) Restricted and repetitive patterns of behavior, interests, or activities (two or more of these): • Repetitive speech, motor movements, or use of objects (hand flapping, echolalia, non- functional use of objects) • Inflexibility about routines, repetitive patterns of behavior, or strong resistance to change (insistence on same driving route, repetitive questioning or extreme distress at small changes) • Restricted, fixated interests that are abnormally intense or focused (attachment to objects, excessively narrow or preoccupying interests) • Over- or under-reactivity to sensory input or unusual interest in sensory aspects of the environment (pain/heat/cold, specific sounds or textures, smelling or touching of objects, fascination with lights or spinning objects) These difficulties must be present in early childhood (but may not be fully observed until social demands exceed a person’s abilities). These difficulties limit and impair everyday functioning. 20 Autism Clinic|tel503-494-8811|fax503-418-5199 Advanced thinking Individuals with an ASD can be very bright and highly motivated by their own internal desire to master a subject. They sometimes have intense interests and can become experts in those areas. Even those who are very strong on cognitive testing may still have a hard time in many areas such as: • Abstract thinking • Seeing the whole picture • Filtering out what is not important • Organization • Planning • Problem solving • Taking something they have learned and applying it to a different setting. Global Developmental Delay (GDD) This diagnosis is provided when young children