diversity and presence of ASD around the world. For now, there are some things that are widely accepted. • ASD is caused by the way the brain develops, likely beginning very early in development. • There is not one single cause of ASD. There are likely multiple factors that may make a child more likely to experience ASD. • Genes are one of the risk factors. ASD often runs in families. A child with a sibling or parent who has ASD is more likely to have ASD, too. What does not cause ASD? The causes of ASD have not been determined, but some things have been ruled out. • There have been many large, high-quality studies done, and no link between vaccines and ASD has been found. • Bad parenting was once thought to be a cause of ASD. This is not true. • Some people wonder whether diet during pregnancy is a factor, but there is no research to support this. Many ethnic groups around the world have similar ASD rates and their diets are very different. 23 www.ohsudoernbecher.com Why are there so many children with ASD? The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reports that about 1 in 68 children in the United States have ASD. This number has risen drastically in the last decades. Why is this? • When the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM) was revised in the 1990s, the definition was deliberately broadened to include more people who could benefit from supports. Previously, many people would not have been “severe” enough to qualify for the diagnosis. This is the main reason the numbers have risen. • There is also much more public awareness of ASD and less social stigma around the diagnosis. • There have been active efforts in the past decades to screen for and diagnose ASD earlier and to provide interventions and supports. 25 www.ohsudoernbecher.com Special education (0–kindergarten) Once a child has been identified as having a medical diagnosis of ASD he or she will likely be eligible for special education s ervices. In Oregon, school districts have their own eligibility criteria, which sometimes can be different from medical criteria. This can be confusing so don’t be afraid to ask the educational team questions. There are also statewide parent organizations that can help answer questions, such as FACT Oregon. The federal government mandates that all children with a disability receive a “free and appropriate education.” For children birth until kindergarten, most educational services are provided by the child’s local Educational Service District (ESD). • Children under three years old receive Early Intervention (EI) services (often in the home setting). • Children between the ages of three years and kindergarten receive Early Childhood Special Education (ECSE) services (often in a preschool classroom setting). For young children who qualify for Early Intervention and/or Early Childhood Special Education (EI/ECSE), a team of professionals and the child’s parents work together to come up with an Individual Family Service Plan (IFSP). This is a plan