to your friends. Do spend time with our siblings, even if you need to arrange for respite care to do so. Schedule something special for them without us along, even if it’s just lunch at a fast-food joint once a week or so. Do ask for help for yourself as needed. Take advantage of respite care when you can. Get cognitive- behavioral counseling and/or medication when you are depressed. Don’t try to do it all alone. Remember: it is much more important that you get a nap and a nourishing meal than that we have a tidy house. Most important: please, please, please don’t wait until we’re “cured” or “recovered” to love and accept us. You could miss our whole lives that way. * Please note that since 2013, Asperger’s Syndrome is now simply referred to as Autism Spectrum Disorder. However, many people who received an Asperger’s Syndrome diagnosis are most comfortable retaining this earlier diagnostic language 17 www.ohsudoernbecher.com The term “spectrum” simply means that symptoms may look very different for each person. Although there are clear patterns that define the diagnosis of ASD, there is a wide range of how different symptoms affect different people. Rather than thinking of a number line of increasing intensity, you can think of ASD like a “buffet” — everyone at the table gets the same basic courses, but the portioning and condiments will be unique to the individual. Because of this, ASD can seem very different in each person and can also shift over the course of a lifetime. For example, one child may have a very hard time with social skills and have very few repetitive behaviors. Another child might be consumed by routines and have an easier time with language. A girl who seems shy in kindergarten may become more verbal in middle school, but also begin to struggle with anxiety or depression. How is ASD Diagnosed? There is no medical test that can be done to diagnose ASD, including blood tests or brain imaging. But there are a number of assessments that should be completed as part of an evaluation for an ASD. Most of these tests are known as “standardized” or “validated” tests. They require a well-trained person (a doctor or psychologist) to interact with an individual while looking for some very specific types of behavior patterns. Other assessments help the clinical team rule out other disorders that may look like ASD or that often go along with ASD (like ADHD). Some tests are used to help the team understand an individual’s strengths and weaknesses to ensure the right planning for supports, interventions and goal setting. There will usually be a combination of tests done directly with the individual being assessed, as well as interviews that rely on parent report or input from teachers/caregivers/ employers. Both types of information (direct and indirect) are important for making a diagnosis. This helps the clinical team to get a good behavioral “snapshot,” as well as a history of any behaviors they may