The person doesn’t have to be eligible for DD Services to be eligible for help through Voc Rehab. For a list of Voc Rehab offices, see: https://www.oregon.gov/DHS/Offices/Pages/ Vocational-Rehabilitation.aspx Information adapted from: A Road Map to Support Services for Adults , 3rd Edition, A collaborative project of DRO, OCDD, Oregon DHS – Seniors and People with Disabilities. ASD an Introduction for Parents: A Guide to Oregon’s Human Services System. Published by: Oregon Technical Assistance Corporation What types of services are available for children under 18? Supports for families Every county in Oregon has a program that can help families with respite, training opportunities and other basic assistance not provided by special education. This support is administered by your County Developmental Disabilities Program. Your child must meet Oregon’s definition of “developmentally disabled” to be eligible for help under this program. You’ll need school test results and/or doctor’s reports that show your child has an ASD. The program is open to families at all income levels. Case managers can help you think about the type of respite and training you need to care for your child at home. You will play a big part in this — you determine where and when you need help, and what kind. Case managers will coordinate and monitor the assistance you receive. Remember, the program is small and probably can’t meet all your needs. But it can get you started. 30 Autism Clinic|tel503-494-8811|fax503-418-5199 Intensive in-home services (for children under 18 years old) If your child needs intense supervision or intervention because of dangerous behavior and/or medical problems, your county may refer you to a state program for intensive in-home services. This program is for children who can’t remain at home unless their family receives significant help with personal care, safety modifications, training, behavior consultation and similar child- related needs. A checklist that rates the severity of the child’s difficult behaviors and/or medical issues determines eligibility. It’s not easy to get into this program and there is a limit to the number of children who can be served. But if you think you need it, ask your county developmental disabilities case manager to be considered. Crisis/out-of-home placement (for children under 18 years old) If your child is in crisis and can’t live at home, county and regional/ state placement specialists can work with you to find a temporary foster home or group home for your child. Some children are in a placement setting for a few weeks; others for a longer period of time, depending on the child and the family’s situation. There are a limited number of foster and group homes in the state that provides services to children with an ASD and other developmental disabilities. (Oregon has no specific institution or residential public school for children with an ASD). Your county may have some crisis foster homes but probably will refer you to the state program for children’s crisis services. Unfortunately, the specialized placements may not be close to the family home. A legal agreement with