that helps the child learn strategies to be more successful at home and at school. This plan will include how the child is currently performing and the goals they will be working towards. Some of the things that ESDs may provide include: • Speech therapy (speaking and using language, feeding, etc.) • Occupational therapy (sensory, self-care, fine motor skills, etc.) • Physical therapy (mobility or movement, gross motor skills, etc.) • Behavioral therapy (transitions, play, behavioral regulation, etc.) • Training for parents and families • Social play groups Public Services BIRTH–21 YEARS 26 Autism Clinic|tel503-494-8811|fax503-418-5199 The Early Intervention programs can be very different from region to region. Some of the services will be provided in the home, others may be at a preschool or other location depending on the needs of the child and the resources of the ESD. Special education services (kindergarten–age 21) Children between the ages of five and 21 receive special education services through their local public school district. These programs always include an Individualized Education Program (IEP). This is developed by a team of school professionals and the child’s parents in order to decide what the child needs to be successful at school. The IEP is a plan that the school is required to have in place, and follow for each child with an eligible disability. The range of services that may be provided by a school district is very broad, and depends on the needs of the child. Some children may benefit from being in a classroom with children who also have disabilities, while other children may do better if they remain in the regular education classroom (and some may do best with a combination of both). It is very important that parents are involved in the decisions that affect the education of their child. Parents should be treated as equal partners in the education process. Sometimes parents have to advocate for different placements or interventions for their child that may not be obvious to other educators on the team. 27 www.ohsudoernbecher.com Transition to adulthood When an individual turns 18, he or she becomes a legal adult regardless of disability. Here are some changes to be aware of: 1. Legal – Depending on the support needs of the person on the autism spectrum, the parents or guardians may need to obtain legal instruments regarding their adult child such as guardianship, conservatorship and/or powers of attorney. These take time and can be expensive to implement, so start to research these instruments well before your adult child turns 18. 2. Medical – At age 18, and sometimes earlier, the disabled person controls access to his or her medical records. To access your adult child’s medical records after age 18, parents will need the written consent of their adult child, or a separate legal right to access those records. 3. Social Security – At age 18, income and asset eligibility will be based on only the disabled person’s income and assets, not the family’s income and assets. A