social, emotional and socioeconomic needs of families. Social workers often help families find the services they need. Special education is a public school program at no cost to families, to meet unique needs of a child with a disability. Speech and language therapy is provided with the goal of improving an individual’s ability to communicate. This includes verbal and nonverbal communication. Spoken language (also referred to as expressive) use of verbal behavior, or speech, to communicate thoughts, ideas, and feelings with others. Stereotyped behaviors are repeated behaviors or actions. They may include repetitive movements like rocking, spinning, hand flapping or posturing of the body or fingers. Stereotyped patterns of interest or restricted patterns of interest refer to a pattern of intense preoccupation with a narrow range of interests and activities. Stim or “self-stimulation” behaviors help stimulate one’s senses. Some “stims” may be helpful (calming, increasing concentration, or shutting out an overwhelming sound). Symbolic play describes play in which children pretend to do things or to be something or someone else. It typically develops between the ages of two and three years. Also called make believe, or pretend play. Tactile defensiveness is a strong negative response to a sensation that would not be upsetting to most people, such as touching something sticky or the feeling of soft foods in the mouth. The term is specific to touch. Training and Education of Autistic and Related Communication Handicapped Children (TEACCH) is a therapy based on the idea that individuals with ASD more effectively use and understand visual cues to increase functional behaviors. The above glossary is an edited version of the glossary from: The 100 Day Kit version 2.0 by the Autism Speaks organization. You can view the kit at: www.autismspeaks.org 44 Autism Clinic|tel503-494-8811|fax503-418-5199 Autism Clinic at OHSU Doernbecher Child Development and Rehabilitation Center Mail code BTE355 700 S.W. Campus Drive Portland, OR 97239-3098 Tel 503-494-8811 Fax 503-418-5199 www.ohsudoernbecher.com OHSU accepts most major health plans. OHSU is an equal opportunity, affirmative action institution. DCH 21489387 8/17