the State is required. It is called the Developmental Disabilities Child Placement Agreement. Also, a plan will be written to include ways that families can remain involved with their children during placement. Families are required to authorize the Oregon Program for Seniors and People with Disabilities (SPD) as payee for their children’s SSI benefits (see below). If the child does not currently receive SSI, the program will apply for these benefits in the child’s name. The cost of the placement is not charged to families; however, this could change in the future. Families are expected to provide clothing and retain health insurance for their child. SPD also will apply for a medical card to supplement the family’s health insurance. 31 www.ohsudoernbecher.com Supplemental Security Income (SSI) SSI is a federal program that provides income and medical insurance through Medicaid to eligible children who are disabled or chronically ill and whose families have little or no income or financial resources. Your child may qualify for SSI payments if your family is eligible for Medicaid. Applying for SSI can be challenging and complex, but it can be done. For more information, contact your county Mental Health and Developmental Disabilities Services Office. Oregon’s Program for Seniors and People with Disabilities offers services ranging from respite care and technical consultation to intensive in-home assistance, crisis intervention and out-of-home placement. There is no separate, specific program for individuals with an ASD. Instead, services are provided through county and state programs that serve people with developmental disabilities. If your child is under 18, it’s important to understand that there is no “entitlement” to services from the Program for Seniors and People with Disabilities. Unlike special education, where children with disabilities have a legal right to public education, there is no law requiring services to children with disabilities — even if eligible. Services are generally limited to available funds in crisis situations. However, in the past few years, services for children with disabilities who are under 18 years old and their families have been expanded and improved. Now there is more help available for families caring for children with disabilities at home and more dollars going to prevent crisis and “burnout” in families. No matter your child’s age, the “doorway” to services is your local county Developmental Disabilities Program. It’s usually located in the county Mental Health Department (see State and Local Developmental Disability Services). Case managers (sometimes called service coordinators) in your county will talk with you to see if your child is eligible for services. • If your child is younger than 18, the case manager will help decide what help you need and develop service options. • If your child is 18 or older, the case manager will work with your child and you to identify options and access available services. 33 www.ohsudoernbecher.com Communication, speech and language One of the key components of autism is communication, speech and language development. Some individuals may be preverbal, while others may speak very well but with poor social