the necessary skills and opportunities that the student will need in order to meet the desired goals. The skills and opportunities needed will naturally change over time as the student makes progress or if goals change. In assembling the transition team, the most important place to start is with the student. Transition should be driven by individual desires, preferences, strengths, interests, needs, and requirements to maintain a high quality of life rather than restricted to a pre-determined program. Every autistic individual is different, so each student will require individualized support and services throughout the transition process. Potential areas of skill development to focus on include teaching communication skills, self-advocacy/self-determination, and 62 independent skills. All of these skills will assist the student to more actively participate in the process. Preparing a student to participate in meetings is vital. Ways to prepare the student to be an active participant include making the student aware of terminology, roles of the IEP team, and the structure of the meeting. Students can practice providing information, leading the team through the process, listening to others, and providing feedback. Evaluation of the student’s strengths and challenges is a critical component of transition. This process will take time, but if the process starts early and the right steps are taken, a foundation for a successful future for the student can be laid. Adult Services after Graduation Transition planning should help connect the young adult with the adult service system before they leave high school. The specific participants and their roles may vary, depending on the goals and needs of the young adult. However, when determining what connections need to be made to more traditional service systems it is also important to consider the natural supports that may exist in settings where the autistic student will be participating. Natural supports are people, resources, training, and forms of assistance that already exist in a particular setting as the first consideration for support before relying on specialized services and personnel. Involvement of other agencies/entities may be necessary so that the student with autism can seamlessly access adult services following graduation, if they are eligible. The Oklahoma Developmental Disabilities Services (DDS), the Oklahoma Department of Rehabilitation Services (OKDRS), the Oklahoma CareerTech, and college and universities are some examples of agencies/entities that might provide adult services to a student. (See Resource section for some specific programs). Connecting the student and families with these services during transition planning can facilitate timely application and eligibility determination for adult services. Critical Skills for the Autistic Student Autistic students may need specific instruction in developing these critical skills: Self-Advocacy/Self-Determination Autistic students need to learn to advocate for themselves to the best of their ability. Self- advocacy should be taught throughout the student’s life. Self-advocacy skills that should be part of curricula for students with autism, include: • Making choices • Negotiating for yourself • Decision making 63 • Disclosing information about their autism • Speaking up for yourself • Asking for what you need • Asking for