the unique needs of each student into account. A student does not need to have failed a course or grade in order for adverse impact criteria to be met. Decisions around determining an adverse impact should not be made solely based on discrepancies in age or grade level academic performance. More information is provided in the OSDE-SES Policies and Procedures. 33 EDUCATIONAL RECOMMENDATIONS FOR STUDENTS WITH AUTISM The number of children with the educational categorization of autism has risen dramatically over the past 20 years. This increase has influenced the type and quality of educational opportunities available. The purpose of this section is to outline important components of high- quality services that greatly improve outcomes for students on the autism spectrum. Students with autism often need support in the following areas: functional and spontaneous communication; social interaction; transitions; behavioral support to prevent or reduce challenging behaviors; adaptive skills; and organizational and decision-making skills. It is important to consider these general instructional recommendations for students with autism when planning their education. These include what skills will be taught and what support is needed. • Students with autism should have the same broad educational goals as all students: learning skills that will promote independence and social responsibility. • Intervention should begin as early as possible and as soon as the child begins to show clear signs of autism. • A systematic plan for how instruction should be provided for a student with autism will help ensure that procedures are implemented consistently across settings. • Students should be engaged in developmentally and age appropriate activities across the day with the expectation that learning will occur. • Effective instruction should include behavioral strategies to increase learning opportunities. Classroom and Individual Supports There are two primary areas, classroom and individual supports, to address when planning instruction for students with autism. Classroom Supports The following classroom practices are recommended for all students, and they are critical for students with autism. Classroom support will vary based on the age or grade of the students. For instance, early childhood classrooms will include elements (e.g., center times, instruction embedded into play, etc.) that are not present in the classroom for older students. However, listed below are some general guiding practices that apply to all ages (Iovannone, et al., 2003). • The classroom is well organized , and expectations of where different learning activities occur are well defined. 34 • The classroom follows a consistent schedule that is communicated in a way accessible to all students (e.g., pictures, written word, time of day included). • The schedule includes planned transitions between activities, and students are taught expected behavior during transitions. • Visual supports are used to provide information and structure. • Changes to the schedule or routine are communicated ahead of the change in a manner understood by each student. • Classroom expectations are displayed and stated in a positive manner (e.g., instead of “no running” use “walk in the hallways,” instead of “no using your cell phone in class”