intervention identified anxiety as the target symptom. One good quality RCT measured changes in anxiety symptoms in addition to core ASD symptoms. 177 The study included 36 children ages 7 to 11 with both ASD and primary anxiety disorder diagnoses. Subjects were randomized to an intervention group receiving 16 weekly CBT sessions or a control group receiving treatment as usual. There were no significant group differences with the exception of slightly higher proportion of subjects with Autistic Disorder compared with PDD or Asperger’s in the intervention group. Primary outcome measures included the following measures of anxiety; Pediatric Anxiety Rating Scales (PARS), Anxiety Disorders Interview Schedule-IV-Child/Parent Version and Clinical Global Impressions-Severity (CGI-S). Secondary outcome measures included other measures of anxiety 58 such as the Multidimensional Anxiety Scale for Children-Parent Version and Child Behavior Checklist, a measure of social responsiveness, the Social Responsiveness Scale, and the Columbia Impairment Scale-Parent Version, which assesses interpersonal, social and academic skill. All measures were collected at baseline, the end of the intervention and 3 months following termination of the intervention. At the end of the intervention, large treatment effects were observed in all primary outcome measures. Pediatric Anxiety Scale ratings were reduced by 21 percent in the CBT group vs. 9 percent in the control group. CGI-S scores were more improved in the CBT group than the control group (effect size 1.06, p<0.01). On the blinded, clinician- rated Anxiety Disorders Interview Schedule, 38 percent of CBT participants vs. 5 percent of control participants showed clinical remission of anxiety symptoms (effect size 1.37, p=0.01). Scores on all measures did not change significantly between the end of intervention and the 3- month followup evaluation. Among secondary outcome measures, group differences were observed with greater improvements on the Columbia Impairment Scale, internalizing symptoms on the Child Behavior Checklist, Revised Children’s Manifest Anxiety Scale anxious arousal subscale, total score and social communication and social mannerisms subscales on Social Responsiveness Scale. No group differences were observed on externalizing symptoms of the Child Behavior Checklist, dysphoric mood, oversensitivity and worry subscales of the Revised Children’s Manifest Anxiety Scale, or social awareness, social cognition and social motivation subscales of the Social Responsiveness Scale. Another good quality RCT assessed a CBT-based intervention specifically developed for children with ASD (“Facing Your Fears”). 173 The study included 48 children ages 7 to14 with ADOS-confirmed diagnosis of ASD randomized to either the CBT group or treatment as usual. Participants were required to be able to speak in full complex sentences and have clinically significant symptoms of anxiety measured on the Screen for Child Anxiety and Related Emotional Disorders-parent version (SCARED). No group differences were identified relative to age, IQ, sex, parents’ marital status, mother’s education, ethnicity, specific ASD diagnosis, or use of psychiatric medications. The intervention consisted of 12 multifamily group sessions over 4 weeks following the manualized CBT treatment. The Anxiety Disorders Interview Schedule for Children was performed at baseline and again at the end of the intervention. The CGI-S scale was obtained at the end