about JFE forms and eligible equipment and materials related to intervention, please see pages 11-15. Invoice Information Required To avoid payment delays, include the following information on your invoice, written or typed in a clear and legible format: 1. Service Provider: • Name (first and Last) • Complete mailing address • Phone number 2. Payee, (if different than the service provider: • Name (first and Last) • Complete mailing address • Phone number 3. Billing Number 4. Invoice Number • Invoices should contain an Invoice Number, of at least 4 digits in length. An example of an Invoice Number is ‘AS01’ which may represent ‘Adam Smith’ invoice #01. • Service Providers are encouraged to develop a numbering system that works best for them in keeping accurate records of payments for each client they are working with. 5. Client Name (first and last) 6. Clear and Detailed Itemization of: • Date of service (day, month, and year) • Type of service • Amount of service provided (hours or days) • Rate (per hour or per day) • Total Cost of service For an example of an invoice, please see the Sample Invoice at https://gov.bc.ca/autism-forms-resources . Submitting Invoices • MCFD is committed to paying all invoices for authorized services and equipment within 30 business days of their receipt; most are paid sooner. • Using the Service Provider Portal (see below) will result in the fastest payment; followed by submission of invoices by email; then regular mail. • Service Providers should provide parents/legal guardians with exact duplicates of all invoices submitted to the Autism Funding Branch at the time they are submitted. • If an invoice is received by the Autism Funding Branch and cannot be paid, both the parent/guardian and the service provider may receive written notification that the invoice cannot be processed (for possible reasons an invoice was not paid, see table below). Invoices may be submitted to the Autism Funding Branch by: 1. Service Provider Portal • The Service Provider Portal allows for invoices to be submitted online and allows for service providers to check the status of their payment and other inquires at any time. • Invoices submitted through the Service Provider Portal are typically paid within three to five business days. • For more details please see: http://www2.gov.bc.ca/ assets/gov/health/managing-your-health/autism/ service_provider_portal_info_sheet.pdf 2. Regular mail • Invoices may be mailed to: Autism Funding Branch PO Box 9776 STN PROV GOVT, Victoria, BC V8W 9S5 • Please note: Mail can be lost in transit. Always keep a copy of documents you send by mail. • Invoices submitted by mail typically take longer to process than those submitted via the Service Provider Portal or email. As a result, payments may be delayed. 3. Fax • Invoices may be faxed to the AFB: (250) 356-8578. • Please note: faxes are not 100% reliable and often much of the required information is not transmitted accurately. If an illegible fax is received, the AFB is not able to initiate contact with the service provider to