Observations on the playground or during recess can provide information on whether the student prefers to play with other children or alone, needs to be in charge of the play or can accept other students’ ideas on how to play, shows concern or worry if someone is hurt, shares emotions (smiles or frowns while looking at others), takes turns, asks other students questions about themselves or their weekend, how the student plays with toys (spinning/banging objects, lining up objects), other challenging behaviors such as hitting, biting, throwing objects, screaming, falling on the ground, and how the student is able to transition to the next activity. Note: For an example of a behavior observation tool, please refer to the Resource section in the appendix of this handbook. 23 Assessment Domains In addition to gathering information from multiple sources and across settings, information should be gathered across several domains. Developmental History Domain Signs of autism are typically present in early childhood development, usually by 24 to 36 months of age or earlier. However, it is also possible that children with strong intellectual skills may not be referred for an evaluation until they reach school-age years. Autism evaluations should include a thorough interview with a child’s primary caregivers to gather information on the child’s social, communication, play, and behaviors beginning around age 24-36 months. Recommended Assessment Sources  Structured Parent Interview (Please refer to the Resource section in the appendix for a link to an example)  Medical History  History of Early Childhood Services Below are some examples of what types of the behaviors to ask about: Joint Attention: when one person coordinates their attention with another for the purpose of sharing interest (as opposed to making a request). Example Questions: Did your child show you things of interest by presenting them for your attention or by pointing to them while looking back at you? Did your child follow your gaze or point to look at something across the room? Shared Enjoyment: When one person demonstrates enjoyment to another, such as looking at someone while smiling or laughing. Example Questions: Did your child smile back at someone smiling at them or in response to something someone says or does to them? How did your child indicate enjoyment of activities or interactions with you? Response to Name: When a person turns to look at someone or vocalizes when they hear their name. Example Questions: Did your child respond consistently to their name? Was it hard to get their attention by calling their name? Social Games and Interactions: Games and interactions a person engages in for the purpose of enjoyment, rather than to request or get something. 24 Example questions: Did your child play with other children or did they prefer to play alone? Was your child interested in other children the same age whom they did not know? Did they ever offer to share things with you or other children? Was your child able to play games chosen by another child? How did