by 50 percent (sleep latency) or 85 percent (efficiency) in 85 and 63 percent of children in the combination group and 39 and 46 percent of children in the melatonin group, respectively. In the CBT arm, 10 percent of children met each criterion, and no children in the control arm achieved these percentages of reduced latency or improved efficiency. The study reported no significant harms. One fair quality RCT evaluated the effects of a sleep education pamphlet compared with no intervention in 36 children with ASD between the ages of 2 and 10 years. 188 Parents of children 67 in the intervention group received a four-page pamphlet with information about sleep environment, promoting bedtime routines and schedules, teaching children to fall asleep alone, avoiding naps where possible, and promoting a sleep/wake schedule; parents did not receive additional instruction. At the 2-week followup, groups did not differ significantly on sleep latency, waking after sleep onset, total sleep time, or sleep fragmentation. Sleep efficiency (total sleep time/time in bed) improved slightly in the intervention group (baseline mean 75.5%±6.1, followup 77.8%±7.0 vs. baseline mean of 76.8%±6.0, followup 75.1%±6.7 for the control group, p=.04). A final fair quality RCT assessed short-term group or individual format sleep education for parents. 190 Participants (n=80) received 1 to 4 hours of education focused on bedtime routines, sleep environment, and sleep resistance in ASD. Followup measures did not differ for any outcome at followup; however, in analyses combining data for the group and individual- education arms, sleep latency (time to fall asleep) was significantly reduced from baseline (p<.001) as was sleep efficiency (p<.001), though the improvement in efficiency (% sleep time out of total time in bed) was not clinically meaningful. Insomnia-related parameters on the parent-rated Children’s Sleep Habits Questionnaire (sleep onset delay, night wakings, sleep duration, bedtime resistance, sleep anxiety) were also significantly improved from baseline to followup (all p<.001) in combined analyses. In a nonrandomized trial including 14 high functioning children with PDD- NOS (IQ≥70) investigators assigned children to 40 sessions of neurofeedback (n participants=7, mean age=9.63±1.53 years) sessions designed to treat individuals with ADHD or to a wait-list control group (n=7, mean age=10.64±1.41 years). 194 , 195 Electroencephalogram data did not differ significantly between groups at followup; however, the treatment group improved on some executive function measures (auditory selective attention, inhibition of verbal responses and impulsive tendencies, all p<.05) and in nonverbal communication compared with the control group. Cognitive flexibility and goal setting improved for the treatment group vs. control but ability to recognize words did not. Parents of children in the treatment arm also rated their children’s communication skills as improved following neurofeedback training. In analyses 12- months post-treatment combining data for the treatment and control group participants who went on to complete neurofeedback training (n=NR), gains in auditory selective attention, non-verbal communication, and parent measures of social behavior continued. In an RCT evaluating neurofeedback, 10 children (mean age=9.43±1.44 years) received 40 neurofeedback sessions aimed at decreasing theta power in the frontal and central