intervention focused exclusively on parents and targeted increased parental response to child communication. The additional targeted treatment consisted of a recommended 30 minutes/day of parent-led intervention. Parents received monthly training for 6 months followed by training every 2 months for another 6 months. The intensity of treatment as usual alone was not reported but approaches consisted of speech pathology and ABA-based community treatments. The additional treatment group showed improvements in ASD symptoms, expressive language, and number of communicative acts during interactions with parents. Parents in the additional treatment group showed increased responsiveness to their children during videotaped interactions, which was correlated with reduced ASD symptom severity. No between-group differences were found in adaptive behavior or parenting stress. Greater language gains were seen in children who were younger with lower functioning levels at baseline. A second fair quality RCT conducted in the United States also focused on enhancing parental responsivity and child communication. 93 It compared Hanen’s More Than Words intervention to treatment-as-usual. The More Than Words group ( n=29, mean age=21.11±2.71 months) received eight manualized group sessions with parents only and three in-home individualized parent-child sessions over a span of 3.5 months, whereas the control group ( n=26, mean age=21.61±2.82 months) received no treatment or treatment as usual. There was no treatment effect on parental responsivity. The More Than Words group showed differential effects on child communication depending on children’s baseline object interest; children with lower levels of baseline object interest had greater growth in communication skills, whereas children with higher levels of object interest showed attenuated growth. A good quality RCT conducted in the United States compared the manualized Assessment Evaluation and Programming System for Infants (AEPS) with and without additional joint attention and social interaction opportunities. 103 , 104 Both the AEPS group (n=24, mean age=28.6±2.6 months; mean intervention hours=205.66±18.63) and the control (n=24; mean age=28.8±2.8 months; mean intervention hours=196±21) received identical amounts of classroom-based treatment (10 hours/week), home-based parent training (1.5 hours/month), parent education (38 hours), and intervention methods. However, AEPS children received extra training in “interpersonal synchrony,” targeting the three outcome variables of socially engaged imitation, initiation of joint attention, and shared positive affect. No significant (p<.05) differences emerged post-treatment on variables of interest. At the 6-month followup, the AEPS treatment group engaged in significantly more socially engaged interaction than controls (p<.05), with most of the growth in this skill occurring during the treatment period (p<.05) but not during followup (p=.24). No between-group differences were found for initiations of joint attention, shared positive affect, expressive language, or nonverbal problem solving. The AEPS group showed significant growth over time for all variables (p values<.01), but the control group only showed significant growth for expressive language (p=.01). Combined group analyses including 32 34 children from both the AEPS and control groups examined long-term outcomes an average of 37.6 months after the end of treatment (mean participant age=72.6±months). In this sample, cognitive skills and Vineland-II communication standard scores increased significantly from baseline (mean change 21.4±22.9, effect size=1.02, p<.001 and