to a specific behavior may not be reinforcing to the student with autism. 51 A question that often arises related to the use of positive reinforcement is whether it is appropriate or desirable to use contrived reinforcers (i.e., indirect reinforcement) such as treats or food to reinforce desired behaviors in general. As with all instructional techniques it depends on the circumstances of the situation such as the importance of the behavior being learned, what other types of “direct” or natural reinforcers are available, and whether using some types of reinforcers could interfere with other goals such as controlling a student’s weight. If the behavior being taught is important to achieving valued behaviors, then using a contrived reinforcer temporarily may be the best instructional decision (Wolery, Bailey & Sugai, 1988, Wolery et al. 1992). ABC Framework to Reduce Challenging Behavior One of the more difficult challenges an educator faces is teaching students who exhibit challenging behaviors. It is expected that educators teaching students with autism will likely be involved in designing effective behavior support strategies to ensure learning and participation. The ABC framework described earlier in this section referring to how to arrange instruction to teach new skills can also be used to understand the purpose of challenging behavior and to develop effective intervention plans. A challenging behavior can be defined as any behavior that interferes with learning, relationships, and participation for the student with autism. Students with autism often exhibit challenging behavior due to the core difficulties in communication, understanding social expectations, or adapting to change. To help a student who is exhibiting challenging behavior, the educator must first understand the purpose of the behavior. For example, the student might engage in a challenging behavior to get away from a demand or task that is unpleasant to the student, or the behavior may serve the purpose of gaining the attention of the teacher or peers in the classroom. To develop an effective intervention plan, the adults must understand the purpose or function of the student’s behavior (Dunlap, Horner, Sailor, & Sugai, 2009). The ABC framework allows educators to carefully observe what happens before a challenging behavior occurs and what happens after it occurs. The information gathered from observing antecedents and consequences will inform the educator regarding what could trigger the behavior (antecedent) or what is possibly reinforcing the behavior (consequence) causing the behavior to increase or maintain. A formal process of identifying antecedents and consequences related to a specific behavior is referred to as a Functional Behavior Assessment (FBA). FBA is an evidence-based procedure. Note: It is required by IDEA that an FBA and Behavior Intervention Plan (BIP) be completed or updated if there is an educational placement change due to disciplinary action. The OSDE-SES Policies and Procedures require an FBA to be conducted and a BIP to be included within the student’s IEP prior to shortening their school day, with supports and strategies to promote their participation in the full school day and week. 52 Antecedent Based Strategies to