(KQ) from the earlier review in the current report, modifying them slightly to reflect a focus on behavioral interventions. The protocol for the current update is available on the AHRQ Effective Health Care web site. Role of the AHRQ Task Order Officer The Task Order Officer (TOO) was responsible for overseeing all aspects of this project. The TOO helped to develop a common understanding among all parties involved in the project, resolved questions and ambiguities, and addressed our queries regarding the scope and processes of the project. The TOO reviewed the report for consistency, clarity, and to ensure that it conforms to AHRQ standards. Analytic Framework Figure 1 illustrates the placement of the review’s Key Questions within the context of treatment choice, potential outcomes, and characteristics that may affect outcomes. Circled numbers indicate the KQs, and their placement indicates the points in the treatment process where they are likely to arise. This update focuses on behavioral interventions for children with ASD or considered to be at risk for ASD. The population of interest is patients 0–12 years diagnosed with ASD. A child entering treatment may be between the ages of 0 and 2 and at risk for diagnosis of ASD or ages 0 to 12 with a diagnosis of ASD. Diagnoses may occur before age 2; thus the represented age ranges overlap. Individuals engage in behavioral interventions, which may lead to specific outcomes (KQ 1). Outcomes may be modified by characteristics of the child/family or of the intervention (KQ 2). KQ 3 involves identifiable changes early in the treatment process that may affect outcomes. KQ 4 involves the relationship between targeted 8 outcomes in the treatment setting and functional outcomes outside the treatment setting. KQ 5 involves generalization of interventions to other contexts, and KQ 6 addresses components of treatments that may drive outcomes, the “active ingredients” of treatments. KQ 7 addresses treatments for very young children considered to be at risk for ASD. Target outcomes in the treatment setting include ASD symptom severity, language/ communication, academic skill development, maladaptive behaviors, distress, adaptive skills development, and social skills/interaction. Functional outcomes outside the treatment setting include adaptive independence, academic engagement/attainment, psychological well-being, and psychosocial adaptation; for children considered to be at risk, the outcomes include changes in ASD symptom severity or diagnostic outcome, motor skills, and cognitive skills. Long-term outcomes include quality of life, social integration, and appropriate level of independence. Harms of intervention are also considered. Figure 1. Analytic framework for behavioral interventions for children with ASD ASD = autism spectrum disorder; KQ = Key Question Note: Numbers in circles on diagram represent placement of Key Questions. Literature Search Strategy Databases A librarian employed search strategies provided in Appendix A to retrieve research on interventions for children with ASD. Our primary literature search employed three databases: MEDLINE ® via the PubMed interface, PsycINFO ® (psychology and psychiatry literature), and the Educational Resources Information Clearinghouse. Our search strategies used a combination of subject heading terms appropriate for each database and key