and Quality; January 2014. Chapters available at www.effectivehealthcare.ahrq.gov. 11. Bolte EE, Diehl JJ. Measurement tools and target symptoms/skills used to assess treatment response for individuals with autism spectrum disorder. J Autism Dev Disord. 2013 Nov;43(11):2491-501. PMID: 23479074. ES-21 Introduction Background Because no medical or biological marker exists for autism spectrum disorder (ASD), the diagnosis is behaviorally based. Diagnosis is typically established with a combination of history, observation, and/or formal testing, which may include ASD-specific screening and assessment instruments. 1 , 2 ASD is defined in terms of persistent, significant impairments in social interaction and communication as well as restrictive, repetitive behaviors and activities. 3 Social communication and social interaction features include deficits in social-emotional reciprocity (e.g., deficits in joint attention, atypical social approach and response, conversational challenges, reduced sharing of interest, emotions, and affect), deficits in nonverbal communication (e.g., atypical eye contact, reduced gesture use, limited use of facial expressions in social interactions, challenges understanding nonverbal communication), and deficits in forming and maintaining relationships (e.g., diminished peer interest, challenges joining in play, difficulties adjusting behavior to social context). ASD features of restricted, repetitive patterns of behavior, interests, or activities may include stereotyped motor mannerisms, use of objects, or speech (e.g., simple motor stereotypies, repetitive play, echolalia, and formal or idiosyncratic speech); insistence on sameness, inflexible adherence to routines, or ritualized patterns of behavior (e.g., distress at small changes, rigid patterns of thought and behavior, performance of everyday activities in ritualistic manner); intense preoccupation with specific interests (e.g., strong attachment to objects, circumscribed or perseverative topics of interest); and sensory sensitivities or interests (e.g., hyper- or hypo- reactivity to pain and sensory input, sensitivity to noise, visual fascination with objects or movement). 4-6 ASD symptoms cause impairment across many areas of functioning and are present early in life. However, impairments may not be fully evident until environmental demands exceed children’s capacity. They also may be masked by learned compensatory strategies later in life. Many children with ASD may also have intellectual impairment or language impairment, and the disorder may be associated with known medical, genetic, or environmental factors. Prevalence and Burden of Disease/Illness The prevalence of ASD in the United States is 14.7 cases per 1,000 (or 1 in 68) children living in the communities surveyed, with rate estimates varying widely by region of the country, sex, and race/ethnicity. 7 Considerably more males (1 in 42) than females (1 in 189) are affected. For some individuals, the core symptoms of ASD (impairments in communication and social interaction and restricted/repetitive behaviors and interests) may improve with intervention and maturation 8-10 ; however, core deficits typically translate into varying developmental presentations that remain throughout the lifespan. 11 Longitudinal studies indicate that adults with ASD struggle to obtain adaptive independence. 12-16 The estimated costs of medical and nonmedical care (e.g., special education and daycare) for individuals with ASD are high. One study estimates that the total lifetime societal cost of caring for and treating a person with ASD in the United States is $3.2