all by implementing innovative research, putting findings into practice, and disseminating knowledge through high-quality products and professional development. Pacer’s National Parent Center on Transition and Employment Pacer’s National Parent Center on Transition provides quality information on transition for youth with disabilities in a format that’s useful to families, youth and professionals. Parents Helping Parents Parents Helping Parents provides parent support for children and adults with disabilities by providing relevant, up-to-date information to individuals with disabilities and their families. Project 10 Transition Education Network Project 10: Transition Education Network provides support to assist school districts in providing appropriate planning and timely transition services and programs to assist youth with disabilities in transition to adulthood. (Florida Department of Education) Roadmap to Transition: A Handbook for Autistic Youth Transitioning to Adulthood This handbook is a plain language resource created to help young autistic people understand and plan for their transition to adult life. From the Autistic Self Advocacy Network and Family Network on Disabilities. Secondary Transition: Student-Centered Transition Planning This module will help users to better understand the benefits of student-centered transition planning, identify ways to involve students in collecting assessment information and 70 developing goals, and be able to prepare students to actively participate in their own IEP meetings. From IRIS Center. Supporting Teens and Young Adults on the Autism Spectrum: Setting and Pursuing Self-Determined Goals This toolkit helps people who support autistic teens and young adults as they set and pursue self-determined goals. Examples of goals include those related to employment, health, independence, daily living skills, relationships, leisure, recreation, and hobbies. From Vanderbilt Kennedy Center TRIAD . The National Technical Assistance Center on Transition The Collaborative (NTACT:C) is a Technical Assistance Center co-funded by the U.S. Department of Education’s Office of Special Education Programs (OSEP) and the Rehabilitation Services Administration (RSA). This resource provides information, tools, and supports to assist multiple stakeholders in delivering effective services and instruction for secondary students and out of school youth with disabilities. The Self-Determination Interchange A website for the developmental disabilities community to exchange ideas, information and resources. Professional Development and Training/Consultation Ohio Center for Autism and Low Incidence (OCALI) Autism Center The Autism Center works to build the capacity of school districts and other education agencies to improve their instruction and support for individuals with autism. Oklahoma Autism Center MESA Program The MESA Program provides consultation and professional development to educators and professionals who work with children on the autism spectrum. They do this by teaching evidence-based practices in statewide trainings and workshops and through virtual and on-site consultation with individual school teams. TEACCH Autism Program UNC School of Medicine offers in-person and virtual training options that provide participants with an overview of learning styles for students with autism and structured TEACCHing methods and principles to promote independence and capitalize on student strengths. Vanderbilt Kennedy Center Treatment and Research Institute for Autism Spectrum Disorders (TRIAD) TRIAD offers training and consultation in behavioral and educational assessment and intervention strategies for school personnel, community professionals, and