cumulative comparative evidence across the original report and update. Strength of the Body of Evidence Two senior investigators graded the entire body of evidence (i.e., studies from the 2011 review and studies identified for the current review) based on the “Methods Guide for Effectiveness and Comparative Effectiveness Reviews . ” 10 The team reviewed the final strength- of-evidence designation. The assessment of the literature was done by considering how confident we were that the true effect was observed and how stable that effect is likely to be in the face of future research. Strength of evidence describes the adequacy of the current research in terms of both quantity and quality, as well as the degree to which the entire body of current research provides a consistent and precise estimate of effect. Strength of the evidence is assessed for a limited set of critical outcomes, typically those related to effectiveness of an intervention. We assessed the strength of the evidence for studies addressing KQs 1 and 7, which deal specifically with the outcomes of intervention. We established the maximum strength of evidence possible based on criteria for each domain: study limitations, consistency in direction of the effect, directness in measuring intended outcomes, precision of effect, and reporting bias. (See the full report for further description of domains.) Then we assessed the number of studies and range of study designs for a given intervention-outcome pair and downgraded the rating when the cumulative evidence was not sufficient to justify the higher rating. The possible grades were— • High: High confidence that the evidence reflects the true effect. Further research is unlikely to change estimates. • Moderate: Moderate confidence that the evidence reflects the true effect. Further research may change our confidence in the estimate of effect and may change the estimate. • Low: Low confidence that the evidence reflects the true effect. Further research is likely to change confidence in the estimate of effect and is also likely to change the estimate. • Insufficient: Evidence is either unavailable or does not permit a conclusion. Applicability We assessed applicability by identifying potential population, intervention, comparator, outcome, and setting (PICOS) factors likely to affect the generalizability of results (i.e., applicability to the general population of children with ASD). For this particular review, the most likely factors that could affect applicability are the patient population (e.g., whether or not results are available to assess the utility of given interventions in target populations) and the intervention ES-6 (e.g., the difficulty of applying the intervention in a nonresearch setting given available resources). We noted where data were available for specific populations and made relative assessments of applicability for intervention components in the context of resource considerations such as availability of services/programs. Results Article Selection We identified 2,639 newly published citations and abstracts. (Figure 2 in the full report shows the disposition of studies.) We excluded 2,012 studies at abstract review and assessed the full text of 627 studies. Of these, 79 publications, comprising 65 unique studies, met our