of Philadelphia Philadelphia, PA Doris Lotz, M.D., M.P.H. Medicaid Chief Medical Officer, New Hampshire Concord, NH Alison Singer, M.B.A. Autism Science Foundation Scarsdale, NY Tristram Smith, Ph.D. University of Rochester Rochester, NY Amy Wetherby, Ph.D. Florida State University Tallahassee, FL Peer Reviewers Prior to publication of the final evidence report, EPCs sought input from independent Peer Reviewers without financial conflicts of interest. However, the conclusions and synthesis of the scientific literature presented in this report do not necessarily represent the views of individual reviewers. Peer Reviewers must disclose any financial conflicts of interest greater than $10,000 and any other relevant business or professional conflicts of interest. Because of their unique clinical or content expertise, individuals with potential nonfinancial conflicts may be retained. The TOO iv and the EPC work to balance, manage, or mitigate any potential nonfinancial conflicts of interest identified. The list of Peer Reviewers follows: Grace Baranek, Ph.D., O.T.R./L., FAOTA University of North Carolina School of Medicine Chapel Hill, NC Tony Charman, Ph.D. King’s College, London London, England, UK Benjamin Handen, Ph.D. University of Pittsburgh Pittsburgh, PA Patricia Howlin, Ph.D. Institute of Psychiatry King’s College, London London, England, UK Susan Levy, M.D., M.P.H. Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia Philadelphia, PA Doris Lotz, M.D., M.P.H. Medicaid Chief Medical Officer, New Hampshire Concord, NH Rhonda Robinson-Beale, M.D. OptumHealth Behavioral Solutions Glendale, CA Tristram Smith, Ph.D. University of Rochester Rochester, NY v Therapies for Children With Autism Spectrum Disorder: Behavioral Interventions Update Structured Abstract Objective. We updated a prior systematic review of interventions for children (0–12 years) with autism spectrum disorder (ASD), focusing on recent studies of behavioral interventions. Data sources. We searched the MEDLINE ® (PubMed ® ), PsycInfo, and Educational Resources Information Clearinghouse (ERIC) databases as well as the reference lists of included studies and recent systematic reviews. We conducted the search in December 2013. Methods. We included comparative studies (with treatment and comparison groups) of behavioral interventions with at least 10 participants with ASD in the update, and made our conclusions based on the cumulative comparative evidence across the original report and update. Two investigators independently screened studies against predetermined inclusion criteria and independently rated the quality of included studies. Results. We included 65 unique studies comprising 48 randomized trials and 17 nonrandomized comparative studies (19 good, 39 fair, and 7 poor quality) published since the prior review. The quality of studies improved compared with that reported in the earlier review; however, our assessment of the strength of evidence (SOE), our confidence in the stability of effects of interventions in the face of future research, remains low for many intervention/outcome pairs. Early intervention based on high-intensity applied behavior analysis over extended timeframes was associated with improvement in cognitive functioning and language skills (moderate SOE for improvements in both outcomes) relative to community controls in some groups of young children. The magnitude of these effects varied across studies, potentially reflecting poorly understood modifying characteristics related to subgroups of children. Early intensive parent training programs modified parenting behaviors during interactions; however,