your child interact with adults versus other children? Pretend Play Skills: Spontaneous (rather than repetitive or scripted) imaginative or pretend play, such as pretending that a block is a house, taking care of a baby doll, or using toy figurines to talk to one another and act out scenes. Example Questions: Did your child use an object to represent something else, such as using a stick as a spoon or a block as a house? Did your child ever use an object as an agent, such as having a baby doll cry or eat food or have toy figures act out scenes? Nonverbal Communication: Forms of communication that do not involve the use of expressive language, such as gestures, tone of voice, facial expressions, or eye- contact. Example Questions: Did your child point to objects or use other gestures to let you know what they need? Did they look at you in the face when they were interacting with you, or was it hard to catch their eye? Did they ever use your hand or move your body to show you what they wanted? Communication/Language Domain When Autism is being considered as a primary category, it is important to prioritize assessment of social communication as well as other aspects of speech and language development. Recommended Assessment Sources  Structured Parent Interview (Please refer to the Resource section in the appendix for a link to an example)  Teacher Report  Direct Observation in different settings  Standardized Assessment Below are some examples of aspects of communication and language to ask about: Receptive Language: Listening and understanding Example Questions: Does the student respond consistently to their name? Is the student able to follow simple or multi-step directions? Do they respond appropriately to simple questions? 25 Expressive Language: Sound and word production and the function of verbal and nonverbal communication Example Questions: What is the student’s primary way of communicating? How much speech does the student have (single words, phrases, full sentence)? Are unfamiliar adults able to understand the student easily? Do they make any grammatical errors? Repetitive or Stereotyped Speech: Immediate or delayed echolalia, which refers to repeating heard words/phrases/sounds/intonations; mechanical-like talk Example Questions: Does the student use any odd phrases or words? Do they say the same thing over and over in almost exactly the same way? Do they repeat words or phrases that they’ve heard other people say? Non-Directed Speech: Speech or sounds that do not have a clear social purpose or is not directed to another person Example Questions: Does the student make sounds/verbalizations that are not directed to another person? Do they sometimes say things without a clear communicative intent? Do they ever have a running commentary on what they are doing? Idiosyncratic Language: Words or phrases that are made-up or only hold meaning for the speaker. Example Questions: Does the student use words/phrases that they seem to have made up? Do they have odd or idiosyncratic ways of saying things or referring to others? Understanding of