with ASD, increasingly using rigorous designs. Despite this recent and improved rigor, treatments remain understudied. In addition, few studies have attempted to systematically replicate findings of previous work. Given the heterogeneity of the expression of ASD within and across children, a critical area for further research is understanding which children are likely to benefit from particular interventions. To date, studies have failed adequately to characterize interventions or children receiving intervention such that we can better understand which children are most likely to experience positive outcomes and why. Further, our understanding of early indicators of treatment response is extremely limited, such that evidence-based changes in treatment planning based on an observed response or lack thereof are not possible. This is important to parents, providers, and families as they often want to know not only when a treatment is working, but when limited benefit of treatments may suggest pursuing other treatment options. Similarly, research is lacking on the durability of treatment gains and approaches needed to maintain gains. Again the accumulated evidence base suggests that although children receiving early intensive intervention demonstrate substantial gains in several areas of functioning (e.g., cognitive ability, language, adaptive, ASD symptoms) on a group level, not all children receiving early intensive intervention demonstrate robust gains. Currently, the evidence suggests some children will show dramatic improvement, others will display robust improvement in some areas with continued areas of vulnerability in others, and other children will show more moderated 101 response to treatment overall. It is also unclear how similar groups of children will perform at differing levels of intensity of interventions or different treatment approaches and methods. Child characteristics like baseline cognitive, language, adaptive skill, and ASD symptoms may correlate with treatment outcome; however, such correlational data provides limited information in making predictions of what treatments will work best for individual children. It is possible that meta-analyses of individual patient data may provide additional information for identifying subgroups of responders. Further, intensive, comprehensive intervention strategies are by their very nature often multi- component. Data on whether specific functional components of the interventions drive effectiveness are currently unavailable as are data on mediators of change. Finally, the intervention research often fails to describe whether treatment effect is modified by family, culture, available resources, and stress. Early intensive behavioral and developmental approaches therefore warrant further research to understand individual response and benefit in the short and long-term across heterogeneous populations. Similarly, evaluations of intervention delivered by community providers are important for comparing effects of such approaches with those of interventions delivered in controlled research environments. Such evaluations are complicated by the complexity of community systems and methodologic challenges including creating similar treatment and control groups and maintaining fidelity; however, they will be increasingly valuable for scaling intervention for ASD. Also important in addressing this gap is improving our currently limited understanding of the effects of provider training and provider characteristics on outcomes of treatment. A primary methodological concern relates to outcome measurement. Intervention research in the field of ASD has