income levels. 166 , 178 , 196 KQ6. Treatment Components That Drive Outcomes We did not identify any studies meeting our inclusion criteria that addressed this question. KQ7. Treatment Approaches for Children Under Age 2 at Risk for Diagnosis of ASD Key Points • Mean ages in studies identified were all under three years, and all studies address interventions that can be used with children under age 2 • Studies reported improvements in young children regardless of type of behavioral intervention Overview of the Literature This section presents the results of our literature search and findings regarding the use of treatment approaches in younger children who are at high risk of developing ASD based upon behavioral, medical, or genetic risk factors. In our 2011 review we identified two comparative studies (one good quality RCT 73 and one fair quality nonrandomized clinical trial 74 ) addressing interventions for very young children. For the current review, we identified three studies 93 , 97 , 99 addressing treatment approaches for very young children. One crossover RCT was conducted in China (poor quality), 99 one prospective cohort study in Europe (poor quality), 97 and one RCT in the United States (fair quality). 93 The mean age in most studies exceeded 24 months, although one 93 included children under age two. Mean ages were all under three years, and all studies address interventions that can be used with children under age 2. The average age for diagnosis of ASD in the United States is not until at least age 3, but a reliable diagnosis can be made as early as age 2. 76 One fair quality RCT was completed in the clinic and home settings. 93 Two poor quality studies, one crossover RCT and one prospective cohort study, 97 , 99 included groups receiving in- home parent training. Detailed Analysis A fair quality RCT focused on enhancing parental responsivity and child communication. 93 It compared Hanen’s More Than Words intervention to treatment-as-usual. The treatment group (n=29, mean age=21.11±2.71 months) received eight manualized group sessions with parents only and three in-home individualized parent-child sessions over a span of 3.5 months, whereas the control group (n=26, mean age=21.61±2.82 months) received no treatment or treatment as usual. There was no treatment effect on parental responsivity. The treatment group showed differential improvement on child communication depending on children’s baseline object interest; children with lower levels of baseline object interest had greater growth in communication skills, whereas children with higher levels of object interest showed attenuated growth. Two poor quality studies compared parent training to lower intensity supportive interventions. Mean ages ranged from 25.33 to33.6 months. Both involved home visits and working with children and parents. The lower intensity treatment model, Autism-1-2-3, compared two groups that received the same series of ten thirty-minute child- and parent-training sessions, with one group having a lagged start date and serving as a control. It did not yield group differences on ASD symptoms, language skills, or parent stress scores. 99 The higher intensity model,