1 fair (31) Low Consistent Direct Precise Undetected Most studies included older children with average IQs. Improvement in anxiety symptoms for greater for CBT vs. control group in 5/6 studies. The study that did not show improvement compared CBT to an active treatment instead of a waitlisted control. Improvement was maintained at followup. Some evidence emerged that CBT may be more effective for some types of anxiety disorders than others. Symptom severity Low for positive effect RCT: 2 good (81) Low Consistent Direct Imprecise Undetected Significant improvement in clinician- and parent-rated measures of anxiety severity in both studies with improvement maintained at followup. SOE is low based on only 2 small studies. CBT = cognitive behavioral therapy; nRCT = nonrandomized controlled trial; RCT = randomized controlled trial 92 Other Behavioral Studies In addition to two poor quality RCTs targeting neurofeedback 186 , 187 and described fully in the 2011 review, we identified we identified six new studies (seven publications) evaluating interventions targeting sleep behaviors, 188-190 feeding difficulties in ASD, 191 and neurofeedback. 192-194 The neurofeedback RCTs reported some improvements on parent-rated measures of communication and tests of executive function. The clinical implications of changes in brainwave patterns reported in the studies are unclear, and the studies were small and short- term. 192 , 194 , 195 Three studies reported on sleep-focused interventions, with little positive effect of a sleep education pamphlet for parents in one, 188 improvements in sleep quality in treatment arms (melatonin alone, melatonin+CBT) in another, 189 and some improvements in time to fall asleep in one short terms RCT of sleep education programs for parents. 190 One poor quality study of parent education to mitigate feeding problems reported no significant effects. 191 Strength of the Evidence With few studies of additional behavioral interventions, all of limited quality, evidence was insufficient to evaluate the relative effect of other behavioral interventions on targeted outcomes including ASD symptom severity, problem behaviors, and sleep concerns as well as outcomes for Key Question 7 (interventions for very young children at risk for ASD diagnosis). Table 17 outlines interventions/outcomes for which we considered the strength of the evidence to be insufficient. Table 17. Behavioral interventions/outcomes with insufficient strength of evidence Intervention Anger Adaptive Behavior Challenging Behavior Executive Function Feeding Behaviors Language/ Communication Outcomes for children age 0-2 yrs at risk for ASD diagnosis Repetitive Behavior Symptom Severity Sleep Parameters Social Skills ABA - based early intensive behavioral and developmental interventions  CBT (commonly associated conditions)    CBT(other behavioral interventions)  Neurofeedback (other behavioral interventions)    Parent training (commonly associated conditions)    Parent training targeting feeding behaviors (other behavioral interventions)  Play/interaction-based interventions  Sleep education pamphlet (other behavioral interventions)  Social skills    ABA = applied behavior analysis; ASD = autism spectrum disorder; CBT = cognitive behavioral therapy; yrs = years 93 Note: Checked outcome/intervention pairs=insufficient strength of evidence. KQ2. Modifiers of Treatment Effects Understanding the degree to which child characteristics (i.e., specific ASD-related difficulties