Behavior Assessment System for Children-2 Withdrawal scales improved for the Skillstreaming group compared with the control (effect sizes 0.85, 0.67, 0.70 respectively, all p<.01). Child-rated measures also improved for the treatment group compared with control (Skillstreaming Knowledge Assessment effect size 1.15; language assessment=0.34, p<.001). No group differences were found in face-emotion recognition. Maintenance of effects on the Skillstreaming Knowledge Assessment and BASC Social Skills scale for the treatment group was demonstrated 2 to 3 months post-treatment (effect sizes 0.47 to 0.68). 136 Another RCT examined the short-term outcome of a trial of a manualized outpatient 15-week social skills program, the Social Skills Group Intervention – High Functioning Autism (SS GRIN-HFA). 126 The study included 55 children, primarily male (98% of the total sample) with IQ>85 randomized either to SS GRIN-HFA group (mean age 10.2 years) or to a traditional SS GRIN group (mean age 9.9). Participants in the SS GRIN-HFA group showed significant improvement in social skills, with significantly better scores than the control arm on all Social Responsiveness Scale domains except social cognition (effects sizes ranging from -0.67 to - 0.94). In addition, parents of children in the treatment group reported significant improvement in the areas of their child’s social awareness, motivation for social interaction, social communication skills, and unusual mannerisms associated with ASD. No significant difference was found between the treatment group and control group regarding child self-report of self- efficacy or loneliness. 41 A final RCT examined followup of the Children’s Friendship Training (CFT) manualized program. 117 , 134 In the initial report included in the 2011 review, 117 76 children with ASD enrolled in second to fifth grades were randomly assigned to the treatment group (n= 40) or the delayed treatment group (n=36). Weekly 60-minute treatment sessions were held over 12-weeks, with parent and child training occurring concurrently in separate locations. Skills targeted as part of the treatment included conversational skills, peer entry skills, developing friendship networks, good sportsmanship, host behavior during play dates, and handling teasing. Participants in the treatment group demonstrated modest gains in the number of hosted play dates (p<.001) as well as a decrease in electronics-use during play dates (p<.001). Participants in the treatment group also demonstrated less disengaged behavior (p <. 001), internalizing behavior (p<.001), and less conflict during play dates (p =.069). In a followup analysis, 134 24 participants from the initial study were followed to examine maintenance of skills. At long-term follow-up 1 to 5 years post-participation in the training, participants continued to demonstrate increased social opportunities through invited play dates, maintenance of friendships, and decreases in loneliness from baseline (p<.05). Participants also demonstrated maintenance of gains in overall social skills along with reduction of problem behaviors (p<.05). One Japanese pilot RCT 135 examined the Treatment and Education of Autistic and Related Communication Handicapped Children (TEACCH)-based manualized group social skills training. The study included 11 children (mean age=64 months) with High Functioning Autism (HFA) (IQ >75) and their mothers, who were randomly assigned to the TEACCH program (n=5) or