The teacher has identified that the student needs practice identifying pictures of common objects and 38 materials in the environment when asked, “What is this?” The instructional materials needed are pictures of common objects in the classroom and community. The teacher identifies the top 10 most useful objects for the student to identify. The teacher holds up a picture and asks the student to label the picture, “What is this?” The student responds with the correct label, and the teacher provides praise and a star on his star board. The star board lets the student know how many pictures he must label before he can access the reward he has chosen. The teacher repeats the “trial” several times using the same procedure and the same pictures. • Error Correction is a supportive prompt provided by the teacher after a student responds incorrectly. This allows the student to respond correctly and access reinforcement. Error correction procedures are intended to be instructional, not punitive. There are many ways to plan an error correction procedure. The important steps to include are: 1. a corrective statement (e.g., “This is a _____”), 2. a supportive prompt that will ensure a correct response, 3. re-deliver the cue or instruction with prompt to ensure correct response, and 4. provide praise or reinforcement. Classroom Example: The teacher asks the student “Wh-” questions about the book they are reading in class. While pointing to a picture in a book the teacher says, “What is the dog doing?” The student replies, “I don’t know.” The teacher then corrects the response by stating, “The dog is jumping” (demonstrating the correct answer). The teacher repeats the instruction, “What is the dog doing?” and provides a model prompt and says, “The dog is jumping.” The student repeats the modeled language and receives praise from the teacher. • Peer-Based Instruction and Interventions are interventions in which peers are actively involved (e.g., instructed in ways to help) in promoting social interaction or other learning goals for students with autism. Classroom Example: The teacher meets with a group of students to discuss how they can “help” the student with autism to initiate asking peers questions. The teacher rehearses with the peers what they are going to say and do. A peer asks their classmate with autism, “What are you doing this weekend?” The student with autism responds, “play video games.” The peer waits a few seconds and then prompts, “You could ask me what I am doing.” • Augmentative and Alternative Communication (AAC) are interventions that teach a student to use a communication system other than speech/verbal to communicate wants or needs. It can be a book with pictures such as PECS (Picture Exchange Communication System), a computerized communication system using a device, or sign language. 39 Classroom Example: A kindergarten student is using a communication device to request materials needed to complete a classroom activity. Seated near classmates, the student presses icons and the computerized device and the voice output states the request. “I want