that did not find a significant benefit of CBT compared it to social recreational therapy rather than treatment as usual or a waitlisted control group. Although the CBT group had improved anxiety symptoms, this improvement did not significantly differ from participants receiving social recreational therapy. 174 The studies examining the effects of CBT on anxiety had largely consistent methodologies and primarily conducted weekly 60-90 minute treatment sessions over a period of 4 months. All studies provided followup data reflecting treatment effects that lasted beyond the period of direct intervention. Two common factors limit the applicability of the results, however. Due to the nature of CBT, which is often language-intensive and requires a certain level of reasoning skills to make abstract connections between concepts, most studies included only children with IQs much greater than 70. This likely restricts the applicability of findings to the general population of people with ASD. Additionally, the CBT interventions described in these studies included both children and parents, suggesting that both components may be necessary for effective treatment. These studies are encouraging regarding the use of CBT to treat anxiety in children with ASD. They also suggest that CBT could potentially be associated with improvements in socialization and communication, although these results were less robust and it is unclear if these improvements were beyond improvements related to the impact of ameliorated anxiety itself. Additional data in the current review relate to parent training to address challenging behavior. Specifically, one fair quality study combined a parent training approach with risperidone. This combination significantly reduced irritability, stereotypic behaviors, and hyperactivity, and improved socialization and communication skills. However, these effects were not maintained at one-year post-treatment. The followup sample size also decreased from 124 to 87. 167 , 179-181 , 184 Strength of the Evidence A growing evidence base suggests that school-aged children with average to above average intelligence and comorbid anxiety symptoms receiving manualized CBT therapy show substantial improvements in anxiety compared with wait-list controls. Within this population our confidence (strength of evidence) in this effect is high. Our strength of evidence of the impact of this intervention for this same group on ASD symptoms (social communication functioning and repetitive behaviors) is low with future research likely affecting our understanding of the unique impact of this intervention (Table 16). With regard to parent training paradigms to address challenging behavior, results of parent training studies and parent training in addition to 90 treatment with risperidone have demonstrated short-term improvements in terms of the frequency and intensity of challenging behavior. With few higher quality studies in this area, we considered the strength of the evidence to be insufficient (Table 17). 91 Table 16. Strength of the evidence for studies addressing interventions targeting commonly associated conditions Intervention/ Outcome Strength of Evidence Grade Study Design Quality and Number of Studies (N Total Participants) Study Limitations Consistency Directness Precision Reporting Bias Finding CBT Anxiety High for positive effect in older children with IQ ≥70 RCT: 6 good, 1 fair, 2 poor (413) nRCT: