professionals, and parents/caregivers on how behaviors are impacting the student’s current functioning across environments as well as their academic achievement. Examples of existing data to review include prior evaluation results, classroom and local/state assessments, classroom observations, and other outside information provided by the parent. When evaluating existing data, it is important to keep in mind: - The age of the data - Comprehensiveness - What instruments were used - Qualifications of person providing information Assessment Settings Observations of a student’s social interaction, communication, and behavior should take place across different environments. This can include multiple settings within the school, such as the classroom, hallway, recess, and cafeteria. For students younger than age three or who have not yet entered the school setting, observations may be conducted in a community location (e.g., park, library), at the child’s home or childcare (depending on local policies), using parent-provided video clips, and/or during activities conducted throughout the course of the assessment (e.g., structured task demands, unstructured play). If the child attends childcare or therapy, observations may be conducted by the 22 child’s provider and shared with the evaluation team for consideration. When observing a student, it is important to consider other environmental factors that may impact behaviors such as a group-setting versus one-on-one, structured versus unstructured time, the student’s relationship with the adult/teacher in charge (usual teacher versus a substitute), and age of peer-interactions (same-age peers versus older/younger peers). Other factors such as the time of day or the volume of noise in the room may also be important to consider. Some students with autism are able to mask or manage their emotions and behaviors earlier in the day but become more fatigued and overwhelmed as the day progresses. Several examples of behaviors to observe in different settings are provided below. • Hallway: Observations in a hallway may provide information on how a student is able to transition between classes or activities. It also provides opportunities to observe if a student looks up when other peers pass by, responds when their name is called, avoids bumping into other students, greets others (verbally or nonverbally by smiling, waving, or looking at someone), or engages in unstructured chitchat. • Cafeteria: Observations in the cafeteria may provide information on how a student copes in a loud and more chaotic environment, displays restricted eating habits or sensory sensitivities to loud noise or different smells, initiates conversations with peers, shares enjoyment (smiling and looking at someone else when something good happens), or shares food or other objects. • Classroom: Observations in the classroom may provide information on how a student asks for help, rephrases questions or comments so other students can understand, adjusts the volume or expressiveness of their voice to fit the situation, works collaboratively in small or large-group settings, shares/takes turns, offers encouragement to others, recognizes when the teacher is giving instructions, displays willingness to try a new way to solve a problem, or faces the teacher or person speaking during class or circle time. • Playground: