ADI-R and/or ADOS B. [clinical DSM-IV-based diagnosis + other] OR [ADOS + other, such as SRS, CARS, SCQ, CAST, ASSQ, OR STAT, MCHAT for under 30 months] C. Only clinical DSM-IV-based diagnosis OR Only ADOS D. Neither clinical DSM-IV-based diagnosis NOR ADOS Was the sample clearly characterized (e.g., information provided to characterize participants in terms of impairments associated with their ASD, such as cognitive or developmental level)? Yes No or NR Were inclusion and exclusion criteria clearly stated? Yes No or NR Do the authors report attrition? Yes No Were characteristics of drop-out group evaluated for differences with the participant group as a whole? Yes No or NR NA or minimal attrition Intervention Was the intervention fully described? Yes No or NR For behavioral studies, was treatment fidelity monitored in a systematic way? Yes No or NR NA Did the authors measure and report adherence to the intended treatment process? Yes No or NR Did the authors report differences in or hold steady all concomitant interventions? Yes No or NR Outcome Measurement Did outcome measures demonstrate adequate reliability and validity Yes No or NR B-3 (including interobserver reliability for behavior observation coding)? Were the primary & secondary outcomes clearly specified a priori? Yes No or NR Were outcome data collected from sources appropriate to the target outcome (e.g. parent report, teacher report, direct behavior observation)? Yes No or NR Were outcomes coded by individuals blinded to the intervention status of the participants? Yes No or NR Analysis Was an appropriate statistical analysis used? Yes No a. For RCT’s, was there an intent-to treat analysis? Yes No NA b. For negative studies, was a power calculation provided? Yes No NA c. Did the study correct for multiple testing? Yes No NA d. For observational studies, were potential confounders and effect measure modifiers captured? Yes No NA e. For observational studies, were potential confounders and effect measure modifiers handled appropriately? Yes No NA External Validity Were outcomes measured in at least one context outside of the treatment setting? Yes No or NR Were outcomes measured in natural environments to assess generalization? Yes No or NR Were follow-up measures of outcome conducted to assess maintenance of skills at least 3 months after the end of treatment? Yes No or NR NA Other Record duration of intervention: Timing of last follow-up after completion of intervention (e.g., immediately, 3 months after end of intervention): Note: See more information on quality approach in Appendix D B-4 Appendix C. Evidence Table Table C-1. Evidence table Study Description Intervention Inclusion/ Exclusion Criteria/ Population Baseline Measures Outcomes Author: Boyd et al., 2013 1 Country: US Intervention setting: Public school classrooms Enrollment period: NR Funding: Institute of Education Sciences, US Department of Education Design: Quasi- experimental study Intervention: LEAP and TEACCH, 6- week time window at the beginning and end of school year (at least 6 months apart) Assessments: parent; teacher; researchers Groups: G1: TEACCH G2: LEAP G3 : non-model specific practices Provider: teachers Treatment manual followed: Yes Defined protocol