Non-Literal Language: Understanding joking, sarcasm, figures of speech (such as idioms) Example Questions: How does the student seem to understand joking or sarcasm? Does the student recognize metaphors or figures of speech? Is it hard for the student to recognize if someone is joking versus being mean? Prosody, Pitch/Tone, Volume, Rhythm, and Rate of Speech: This may include: - Unusual intonation (high pitched, monotone, growling) - Adjusting volume to match different contexts - Smooth or jerky, irregular rhythm - Rapid rate of speech that is difficult to interrupt or understand Example Questions: 26 Is there anything unusual about the way the student speaks? Is their volume of speech appropriate to different settings? What about the rate or rhythm of the student’s speech? Is there anything different about the intonation or pitch? Conversation Skills, including: - Turn taking - Topic management: perseveration on certain topics, ability to transition between topics, initiating/terminating relevant and shared topics - Providing appropriate amounts of information in conversations - Expressing interest in other people’s ideas (asking questions to learn more, encouraging others, etc.) Example Questions: Can the student have a back and forth conversation (rather than providing responses to direct questions)? Does the student ask other people questions about their interests to learn more about them? Can they build on what other people have said? Does the student ever make socially inappropriate questions or statements? Social Interaction Domain There are inherent limitations in the use of standardized, structured assessments for evaluating spontaneous social skills. It is important to combine observations and results gained during standardized assessments with observations in other settings and parent/teacher report. It is also important to note that children with higher cognitive abilities may perform better and display social strengths on standardized assessments of social interaction. Recommended Assessment Sources  Structured Parent Interview (Please refer to the Resource section in the appendix for a link to an example)  Teacher Report  Direct Observation in different settings  Standardized Assessment Information about a child’s social interaction skills and specific autism characteristics should be gathered from multiple sources (e.g., parents/caregivers, teachers, the student), including: Nonverbal Communication: Understanding of and ability to use facial expressions, gestures, eye-contact, body posture, physical proximity, joint attention, etc. to initiate, respond, and maintain social interaction Example Questions: Is the student looking at you when you expect them to? How do they show their emotions using facial expressions/are they appropriate to the situation? Is the student 27 aware of personal boundaries? When someone smiles at them, does the student smile in return? Social Approach, including: - Initiating conversations and interactions with others - Asking for help - Adjusting strategies for initiating interaction to different settings and relationships (such as a teacher versus a peer) Example Questions: Does the student ever start interactions with others just to chit chat or share interests (as opposed to making a request)? How does the student let you know if they want something or need help? Peer Relationships, including: - Play skills - Initiating and