ABA is an umbrella term describing principles and techniques used to assess, treat, and prevent challenging behaviors and to promote new, desired behaviors. The goal of ABA is to teach new skills, promote generalization of these skills, and reduce challenging behaviors with systematic reinforcement. The principles and techniques of ABA existed for decades before being specifically applied to the study and treatment of ASD. We include in this category two intensive interventions that have published manuals to facilitate replication: the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA)/Lovaas model and the Early Start Denver Model (ESDM). These two interventions have several key differences in their theoretical frameworks and in how they are implemented, although they share substantial similarity in the frequent use of high-intensity (many hours per week, one-on-one) instruction using ABA techniques. They are described together here because of these similarities. We note, however, that the UCLA/Lovaas method relies heavily on one-on-one therapy sessions during which a trained therapist uses discrete trial teaching with a child to practice target skills, while ESDM blends ABA principles with developmental and relationship-based approaches for young children. The other treatment approaches in this category also incorporate ABA principles and may be intensive in nature; often, however, they have not been documented in a manual. We have classified these approaches broadly as UCLA/Lovaas-based given their similarity in approach to the Lovaas model. A third particular set of interventions included in this category are those using principles of ABA to focus on key pivotal or foundational skills and behaviors (such as motivation to communicate or initiation of communication), rather than global improvements. These approaches often emphasize parent training as a modality for treatment delivery (e.g., Pivotal Response Training, Hanen More than Words, social pragmatic intervention, etc.) and may focus on specific behaviors such as initiating or organizing activity or on core social communication skills. Because they emphasize early training of parents of young children, they will be reviewed in this category. We utilize the term ABA-based interventions to refer to this overarching, broad grouping of early intensive behavioral and developmental interventions throughout the remainder of the work. As such, it is important to recognize this term reflects a broader category of specific interventions that often vary in terms of approach, scope, and intensity. Social skills interventions. Social skills interventions focus on facilitating social interactions and may include peer training and social stories. 6 Play/interaction-focused interventions. These approaches use interactions between children and parents or researchers to affect outcomes such as imitation or joint attention skills or the ability of the child to engage in symbolic play. Interventions focused on behaviors commonly associated with ASD. These approaches attempt to ameliorate symptoms such as anger or anxiety, often present in children with ASD, using techniques such as Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT) and parent training focused on challenging behaviors. Additional behavioral interventions. We will categorize approaches not cleanly fitting into the behavioral categories above in this group. Uses of This Report This evidence report addresses the Key Questions outlined above