implementing peer-based interventions with students with autism. From Vanderbilt Kennedy Center TRIAD . PEERS Curriculum for School-Based Professionals This resource is a curriculum-based resource that provides instruction and lesson plans for teaching social skills that are immediately useful and relevant to adolescents in a variety of social settings. 68 Langston, E.A., (2014). PEERS Curriculum for School-Based Professionals: Social Skills Training for Adolescents and Young Adults . New York, Routledge. Remaking Recess An evidence-based psychosocial intervention designed to help children with autism increase inclusion, engagement, and connections with peers at recess. Teaching Communication Skills: A Toolkit for Educators This toolkit provides information about how to help students with autism improve their ability to communicate. From Vanderbilt Kennedy Center TRIAD . The DATA Model for Teaching Preschoolers with Autism Help preschoolers with autism thrive in inclusive classrooms with this comprehensive linked program, featuring an assessment checklist and 140+ instructional programming sheets and lesson plans. Schwartz, I.S., Ashmun, J., McBride, B., Scott, C., & Sandall, S. (2017). The DATA Model for Teaching Preschoolers with Autism . Maryland, Brookes Publishing. Visual Supports and Autism Spectrum Disorders This introductory guide provides information on using common visual supports to promote communication between a caregiver/educator and a student with autism. From Vanderbilt Kennedy Center TRIAD . Quality Classroom Checklist This tool can be used by educators and administrators as a self-assessment to identify areas of strength and need in classrooms or programs serving students with autism. This tool is intended to be used supportively (not critically) to identify professional development opportunities and classroom support needs. From the Oklahoma Autism Center . Transition Planning Elementary , Middle School , High School - Oklahoma Transition Planning Folders Folders with information about transition resources, services, and activities for students with disabilities are available through the Oklahoma Department of Rehabilitation Services for Elementary School, Middle School, and High School. From Oklahoma Rehabilitation Services . Health and Development Resources These resources include several toolkits related to personal hygiene, puberty, and healthcare. From Vanderbilt Kennedy Center . 69 I’m Determined (Educators) This resource helps teachers support students in developing self-determined habits, including involvement in their IEP process. Site also has resources for youth and families. Life Journey Through Autism: A Guide for Transition to Adulthood The Organization for Autism Research developed this resource to facilitate transition planning and to aid autistic individuals in building the skills and establishing the supports that will allow them to take advantage of all that adulthood has to offer. From the Organization for Autism Research . Minnesota Department of Education Person Centered Practices Tools, strategies and tips are provided to support special education teachers, students with disabilities and families in learning how to engage in person-centered planning. Nebraska’s Person-Centered Planning Initiate (Department of Health and Human Services) Initiates that are working to encourage Person-Centered Planning including a resource library and training. OU Zarrow Institute on Transition and Self Determination The Zarrow Institute on Transition & Self-Determination at the University of Oklahoma strives to promote successful transition outcomes for