(mean 24.9±12.8 vs. 18.8±10.5, p=.047). At the 8-week followup, frequency of joint attention skills during teacher-child play were significantly better in the treatment group compared with control (effect size=0.44) but the duration of joint engagement did not differ between groups. Duration of joint engagement was greater in mother- child play in the treatment group vs. control (mean 12.2% longer duration of joint engagement, effect size=0.67). Although initiation of joint attention skills increased in the treatment group, group differences were not significant, thus effects on joint attention seen with teachers did not generalize. Frequency of joint attention initiation as measured on the Early Social Communication Scales did not differ between groups. Adjusting analyses to account for expressive language differences did not change results. Further, investigators found no putative moderators (age, DQ, language age, program philosophy) to be significant, suggesting that the intervention may be applicable across developmental levels. 155 Another fair quality RCT comparing joint attention and symbolic play interventions delivered via an interventionist included 58 children with ASD between 3 and 4 years of age. Investigators assessed language development, joint attention and play skills, and mother-child interactions at pre- and post-intervention and 6 and 12 months after the end of the 5 to 6 week intervention. 140 , 141 , 148 , 149 Children in both groups showed significantly greater growth in expressive language, initiation of joint attention, and duration of child-initiated joint attention over time than did participants in the control group (p<.01 to <.05, moderate to large effect sizes). Growth in receptive language was not significantly affected by the intervention from pre- intervention to 12 months post-intervention. Children in the symbolic play group also showed significantly more growth in play level than did children in either the joint attention (p<.01) or control (p<.001) groups. In a subsequent report on 52 of the 58 RCT participants assessing joint attention quality, both the joint attention and symbolic play groups improved in shared positive affect during joint attention and in shared positive affect with utterances during joint attention at 6 and 12 months post-intervention (p<.05) but not at intervention exit. 149 Differences between groups at the 6 and 12 month time points were not significant. The control group generally declined in instances of shared affect over the followup time points. Forty of the 58 participants in the RCT also participated in followup 5 years post-intervention. 148 Fifteen of 20 children in the joint attention group, 14 of 21 in the symbolic play group, and 11 of 17 in the control returned at 5 years; mean age across groups was 8 years and 8 months. Of the 40 participants, five were enrolled in regular education, 17 in regular education with some special education support, and 18 were in special education classrooms; placement did not differ among groups. At followup, 5/15 participants in the joint attention group, 1/14 in the symbolic play group, and 2/11 in the control arm were considered non-spectrum. Thirty-two of the 40 participants achieved valid scores on language assessments