school settings • Monthly smart phone bills and/or data plans • Psychoeducational Assessments The following are some examples of ineligible services: • Child care • Respite • General recreation lessons, such as swimming and karate • Medical services • Services provided out of province, and associated travel Not all ineligible expenses are listed here. It is recommended that families contact the Autism Funding Branch at 1 877 777-3530 for more information before purchasing items or services. 12 A Parent’s Handbook: Your Guide to Autism Programs Work with your RASP professional(s) to select Behaviour Interventionist(s) (BI) (as required) to assist in implementing the BPI. BIs should not work in isolation and should be supervised by RASP professional(s) The BC develops a Behaviour Plan of Intervention, with input from the parents and the child’s SLP, OT, and/or PT Setting Up an Autism Intervention Program for Your Child Under 6 Contact MCFD to apply for Autism Programs Receive Autism Funding: Under Age 6 Contact Autism Information Services BC to learn about ASD intervention and how to hire a service provider Interview potential service providers from RASP Select a Behaviour Consultant/Analyst (BC) from the RASP Select an SLP, OT and/ or PT from the RASP, as needed for your child RASP Professionals update the BPI regularly, based on the child’s progress MCFD : Ministry of Children and Family Development www.mcf.gov.bc.ca/autism/index.htm AIS BC : Autism Information Services BC autisminfo.gov.bc.ca ASD : Autism Spectrum Disorder (see page 2) RASP : Registry of Autism Service Providers (see page 10) BPI : Behaviour Plan of Intervention (see page 25) BC : Behaviour Consultant/Analyst (see page 21) SLP : Speech-Language Pathologist (see page 21) OT : Occupational Therapist (see page 21) PT : Physical Therapist (see page 21) 13 • Applicable employer costs (e.g., employee income tax, Canada Pension Plan, Employment Insurance and WorkSafeBC premiums, four per cent vacation pay) • Up to 20 per cent of the funding may be used for training, travel costs to access eligible autism intervention and training with B.C. (round trip greater than 80 kms), and eligible equipment as necessary for effective intervention, outlined in a Justification for Equipment and Supplies Form completed by a professional/specialist (see the WEBLINK on the next page or Autism Funding: Ages 6-18 - Ineligible Expenses on page 15 for more information) Travel costs to access training within B.C. (round trip greater than 80 kms): • Reimbursement for registration and travel costs for parents or behaviour interventionists to attend autism- specific training. • Travel expenses may include actual fare for air, bus or train travel, or mileage at $0.40 per kilometre for a private vehicle. • Hotel expenses to a maximum of $150 per night, for one room are eligible. • Parking may be reimbursed to a maximum of $15 per day. • Ferry and toll charges are eligible expenses. • Educational books, DVDs and videos for parents (specific to autism). Travel costs to access autism intervention within B.C. (round trip greater than 80 kms): • If you