1.10 Receptive language: 2.91 Vineland adaptive behavior: 0.91 Vineland communication: 1.32 Vineland daily living: 0.68 Vineland socialization: 1.49 97 CI = confidence interval; IQ = intelligence quotient; n = number; RCT = randomized controlled trial Applicability ASD is characterized by significant heterogeneity within the population. Variation in both core and associated symptoms across and within children over time is substantial. Individual therapies are developed and tested to ameliorate specific symptoms or groups of symptoms, often in a fairly circumscribed subset of children. Ideally, research on therapies for ASD should target specific children most likely to benefit from a particular focus; thus details on the population, intervention, comparator, outcomes, and setting (PICOS) for each intervention category are provided in Appendix G. These data may help to support translation of our findings and assessment of the applicability of each for differing circumstances and children. Furthermore, although interim, clinically based improvement is important, longer term functional outcomes are the goal for ASD interventions. In terms of followup for assessing durability of effects, most studies report on outcomes collected immediately post-treatment or within 3 months of treatment (roughly 75% of studies in the behavioral literature), although more studies than in our previous report attempt to assess impact over the course of much longer timespans. Additional research is needed on the degree to which changes observed during treatment translate to functional outcomes over time should treatment be discontinued. Importantly, ASD is often construed as a lifespan disorder and there has not yet been research assessing the long-term functional impact of treatment in childhood on lifespan development and functioning. Studies of early intensive behavioral and developmental interventions were conducted primarily in preschool age and early school age children (i.e., typically children initially ages 1.5–7 years) and as such questions remain about how these approaches apply to and benefit younger children diagnosed with or at-risk for ASD. The cognitive, language, and adaptive behavior profiles of participants included in these studies were generally in line with those seen in the community (i.e., typically marked by substantial impairment/delay, but with some children with more intact early cognitive/language profiles). However, the availability and accessibility of the approaches studied are substantially limited in many community based settings. That is, the studies were often either conducted in highly controlled environments (e.g., university supported intervention trials) or the methodology was not well-described (i.e., non-manualized approaches). Thus, the generalizability (i.e., applicability) of these methods to common practice should be assessed carefully. Even available manualized interventions require high degrees of specialization and training that will likely continue to make translation into common practice difficult. Studies of parent training interventions and play-based interventions for preschool children, often emphasizing principles of ABA aligned with current practice and the target populations that are typically referred for these services. Training programs often included components to improve social communication skills such as joint attention, play-based interactions, and pragmatic language approaches; interventions were conducted for approximately 1–4 hours/week with parents asked to introduce learned techniques within natural settings. Several programs offered