receiving early joint attention-related intervention in combination with other interventions show substantial improvements in joint attention and language skills over time. Within this growing literature, our confidence (strength of evidence) in this effect is moderate, based on the need for additional research that identifies which groups of children benefit the most from this approach and how this intervention relates to other ongoing concurrent offered interventions. Results from a variety of play-based interventions also suggest that young children often display short-term improvements in early play, imitation, language, and social interaction skills. However, our confidence in these estimates is low, and substantial evidence that these short-term improvements are linked to broader indices of change over time is lacking (Table 15). 88 Table 15. Strength of the evidence for play/interaction-based studies Outcome Strength of Evidence Grade Study Design Quality and Number of Studies (N Total Participants) Study Limitations Consistency Directness Precision Reporting Bias Finding Joint attention Moderate for positive effect RCT: 3 good, 6 fair (305) Low Consistent Indirect Precise Undetected Selected joint attention skills consistently increased in treatment arms, but duration of effects is unclear. The SOE is lowered to moderate as children in most studies were also receiving other early intervention and disentangling effects is difficult. Play skills Low for positive effect RCT: 3 good, 3 fair, 3 poor (265) Prospective cohort: 1 poor (12) Medium Consistent Direct Precise Undetected Play skills increased in treatment arms but duration of effects is unclear. Imitation skills improved in treatment arms in 4 small, short- term studies and in the treatment and control arms in 1 study. Language/ Commun- ication Low for positive effect RCT: 4 fair (165) Medium Consistent Direct Imprecise Undetected Expressive but not receptive language skills generally increased in the treatment arms in 2 studies; expressive and receptive language improved in 1 study; prompted but not spontaneous communication improved in 1 study. Social skills Low for positive effect RCT: 1 good, 3 fair (173) Medium Consistent Indirect Precise Undetected Joint engagement or positive affect improved in treatment arms in 3 studies. RCT = randomized controlled trial 89 Interventions Targeting Conditions Commonly Associated With ASD Most studies in this category evaluated the impact of cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) on co-occurring conditions, such as problem behaviors or anxiety, rather than core ASD symptoms or broader developmental domains (e.g., cognition, language, adaptive behavior). We identified nine comparative studies addressing interventions targeting conditions/behaviors commonly associated with ASD in the 2011 review. These studies included four RCTs 163-167 and one nonrandomized trial 168 of fair quality and three RCTs 169-171 and one prospective cohort 172 of poor quality. Seven of nine RCTs identified for the current and 2011 review measured anxiety symptoms as a primary outcome. 164-166 , 169 , 171 , 173 , 174 , 176-178 , 182 Six of these studies reported significantly greater improvements in anxiety symptoms in the intervention group compared with controls. Two of these studies found positive effects of CBT on the core ASD symptom of socialization. The one RCT