use “cell phones are placed on silent and put away during class.”) • Task organizers are used to provide structure in a way all students will understand and minimize wait time in the classroom. • Instructional responsibilities among staff are clearly communicated (e.g., a written schedule provided monthly or written on a whiteboard in the classroom). Individual Supports These supports are tailored to improve student learning outcomes and address specific areas of need. They are often driven by the student’s Individual Education Program (IEP). The goals and objectives identified should then be implemented using evidence-based practices identified as effective for students with autism. Evidence-Based Practices (EBPs) for Supporting Students with Autism Instruction based on scientifically validated techniques is required by federal law in both special education (IDEA, 2004) and general education (Every Student Succeeds Act, 2015). While students with autism benefit from good instructional practices that are necessary for all students to succeed, there is additional support needed to ensure positive academic and social outcomes. A variety of instructional approaches are specifically recommended for students with autism to address their diverse learning needs. For this handbook, evidence-based practices (EBPs) are those practices that incorporate the best available research, rely on knowledge from experts in the field, and are informed by student data and input from families. EBPs are used to identify and provide educational interventions that are then evaluated for each student to ensure progress and positive outcomes. An EBP is only deemed effective if the student is making good progress toward educational goals. The following practices and strategies provide important guidelines for instruction, and some have been identified as more effective than others. Most experts agree there is no universal strategy that is always effective for students with autism. Hume et al. (2021) has provided a comprehensive review of EBPs. A subset of these practices listed below are strategies that 35 are more commonly used in school settings and have shown positive results (Machalicek et al. 2008). The following EBPs are strategies that can be easily integrated into the classroom without formal training. • Reinforcement is anything that occurs after a behavior that increases the likelihood that the behavior will recur. An important distinction here is the difference between the terms “reinforcement” and “reinforcer.” A reinforcer is the actual activity, item, food, etc. being used in the process of reinforcement. Positive reinforcement is anything that follows a behavior that results in an increase in that behavior. This occurs by presenting an event or item after the behavior that causes the behavior to increase. Classroom Examples: The teacher provides praise, access to a favorite activity, item, food, or materials immediately when a student provides a correct answer, pays attention, or attempts to answer the question. The teacher is positively reinforcing the desired response (i.e., correct responding or attention to task) making it more likely the response will be repeated. The speech language pathologist (SLP) at the local high school facilitates a social skills group for teens with and without autism.