treatment group. Results were often confounded by nonrandom assignment of participants, including assignment based on child characteristics (such as having the skills necessary to participate in intervention setting) or parental preference. The latter is especially problematic when outcomes are measured by parent report, given some evidence that parental stress influenced parent perceptions of child outcomes. Additionally, in most studies, both enrolled and control/waitlisted children were receiving concomitant interventions, the magnitude of which was inconsistently documented and controlled for in analyses. A remaining significant challenge to interpreting the early intensive intervention literature relates to how interventions are described and implemented (see Appendix F for further characterization of the early intervention studies in this review). Although researchers are increasingly attempting to manualize approaches as well as operationalize and measure treatment fidelity, most of the body of literature categorized in this report as “early intensive behavioral and developmental intervention” remains an eclectic grouping. This category of intervention presently groups different treatment approaches (i.e., developmental, intensive behavioral, center based, and combinations), intensity (12 hours over 3 months vs. 30 hours over 1 week), and 100 duration (weeks to years); varied inclusion and baseline assessment criteria; children of varying ages (intake age ranging from 18 months to 7 years); and many different outcome measurements over different periods of time (weeks to years). Manualizing intensive interventions to be delivered over the months and years for a very heterogeneous patient population is intrinsically challenging. However, recent progress toward this end has shown that children will often respond differentially to early intensive approaches. Unfortunately, we do not yet understand how these specific intervention approaches differentially affect specific subgroups of children with ASD. Few studies directly compared the effects of well-controlled treatment approaches, instead comparing interventions to non-specific “treatment as usual.” Additionally, little data on the practical effectiveness or feasibility of these treatments beyond research studies exist, and questions remain about whether reported findings would generalize on a larger scale within communities. Furthermore, the studies conducted have used small samples, drastically different treatment approaches and duration, and different outcome measurements. Similarly, no studies in this category reported harms of intervention in terms of child, family, or system impact. Although there was a fairly robust evidence base on CBT, the literature lacks head to head comparisons of treatment or controlled comparisons of combinations of treatments despite the fact that most children are undergoing multiple concurrent treatments. Although well designed, the sample sizes are quite modest. Additionally, the CBT approaches were modified for children with ASD and oftentimes manualized by the authors themselves, which highlights the need for replication by outside investigators. Lastly, the only study that did not show significant benefit in the CBT intervention group compared with it to an active treatment control as opposed to a waitlist or treatment as usual control. 174 This suggests that more studies including active control groups are needed to examine if CBT reduces anxiety more than other treatment modalities. Research Gaps and Needs Several behavioral treatment approaches report positive outcomes in children