should include the assessment and service providers at that school, such as the school psychologist, speech-language pathologist, occupational therapist, the student’s teacher, an autism specialist, and the parents/caregivers. It is also recommended that school teams be involved in intervention and support planning for each child following an evaluation. More information on building and understanding collaborative teams is provided in the “Building a Collaborative Team” section of this handbook. According to the Special Education Policies and Procedures a comprehensive evaluation for Autism must include the following components: 20 • Communication/Language • Intellectual/Cognitive • Academic Achievement • Developmental • Social/Emotional • Behavior • Adaptive Behavior • Background (cultural and educational) • Observation (classroom/other environment) • Vision Screening • Hearing Screening Note: Additional components, such as medical history, may be included as needed. Please see the Oklahoma State Department of Education Special Education Services Evaluation & Eligibility Handbook (2022) for more information on the nature and purpose of assessment in each of these areas. Types of Autism Assessment Sources and Settings A comprehensive autism evaluation performed by a school team should use a variety of sources of information that are sensitive to cultural, linguistic, and environmental factors. A student’s eligibility should not be based on one measure or a single source of information. Comprehensive evaluations require assessment methods that gather information from (1) multiple sources, (2) multiple settings, and (3) across multiple domains. More information on each of these methods is provided below. Assessment Sources The following sources of information should be included in an evaluation: • Interviews: Interviews with parents/caregivers, teachers, and the student (when possible) should be conducted to obtain relevant information from different sources. The parent/caregiver interview should include a comprehensive developmental and medical history. • Behavioral Observations: Observations in two or more settings (can be two different settings within the school) should be conducted to address characteristics related to autism. Observations should also be spread out across multiple days. More 21 information on assessment settings and observations is provided below in the “Assessment Settings” Section. • Norm-Referenced Rating Scales: Rating scales completed by parents/caregivers, teacher(s), and the student (when possible) on social relationships, adaptive functioning, sensory processing, behavior, etc. • While gathering information from parents/caregivers and teachers on rating scales and through interviews is an important part of a comprehensive autism evaluation, it is also critical to consider how environmental and cultural factors may impact interpretation. For example, level of parent concern for autism has been shown to impact the sensitivity of parental report-based instruments for autism (Havdahl et al., 2017). As such, it is important for teams to consider multiple sources of information, including direct behavioral observations and in-person, interactive assessment with a professional who has experience and training in autism assessment. • Standardized Assessment: Assessment using a standardized measure of cognitive ability, academic achievement, social and communication skills, and autism-specific areas should be conducted by a trained professional familiar with autism. • Review of Existing Data: Teams should gather existing information from teachers, community agencies, medical/mental health