outcome. Five of these studies reported significantly greater improvements in anxiety symptoms in the intervention group compared with controls. Two found positive effects of cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) on the core ASD symptom of socialization, and one reported improvements in executive function in the treatment group. The one RCT that did not find a significant benefit of CBT compared it with social recreational therapy rather than with treatment as usual or a wait-listed control group. The studies examining the effects of CBT on anxiety had largely consistent methodologies. Six studies provided followup data reflecting treatment effects that lasted beyond the period of direct intervention. Two common factors limit the applicability of the results, however. Due to the nature of CBT, which is often language intensive and requires a certain level of reasoning skills to make abstract connections between concepts, most studies included only children with IQs much greater than 70. These studies report positive results regarding the use of CBT to treat anxiety in children with ASD (Table B). They also report some positive results in socialization, executive function, and communication; however, these results were less robust, and it is unclear in some studies if these improvements exceeded improvements related to the impact of ameliorated anxiety itself. Additional data in the current review relate to parent training to address challenging behavior. Specifically, one fair-quality study combined a parent-training approach with risperidone. This combination significantly reduced irritability, stereotypical behaviors, and hyperactivity, and improved socialization and communication skills. However, these effects were not maintained at 1 year after treatment. Other Behavioral Studies Two RCTs (one fair and one poor quality) examined neurofeedback and found some improvements on parent-rated measures of communication and tests of executive function. Three fair-quality RCTs reported on sleep-focused interventions, with little positive effect of a sleep education pamphlet for parents in one, improvements in sleep quality in treatment arms (melatonin alone, melatonin + CBT) in another, and some improvements in time to fall asleep in one short-term RCT of sleep education programs for parents. One poor-quality study of parent education to mitigate feeding problems reported no significant effects. KQ 2. Modifiers of Treatment Effects Among the potential modifiers or moderators of early intensive ABA-based interventions, younger age at intake was associated with better outcomes for children in a limited number of studies. Greater baseline cognitive skills and higher adaptive behavior scores were associated ES-9 with better outcomes across behavioral interventions, but again, these associations were not consistent. In general, children with lower symptom severity or less severe diagnoses improved more than participants with greater impairments. Many studies (e.g., social skills, CBT) restricted the range of participants’ impairment at baseline (e.g., recruiting only participants with IQs >70), limiting understanding of intervention impact on broader populations. Studies assessing parental responsiveness to children’s communication typically reported better outcomes in children whose parents were more aligned with the child’s communication versus those who attempted to redirect or were less synchronized. Regarding intervention-related factors, duration of treatment had an inconsistent effect. Some studies