developmental skills (such as cognition, adaptive behavior, and ASD symptom severity) beyond language gains for some children. Children receiving low-intensity interventions have not demonstrated the same substantial gains in cognitive skills seen in the early intensive intervention paradigms. Social Skills Studies We located 13 studies addressing interventions targeting social skills, including 11 RCTs. The overall quality of studies improved in comparison with the previous review, with 2 good- quality and 10 fair-quality studies. Social skills interventions varied widely in terms of scope and intensity. A few studies replicated interventions using the Skillstreaming model, which uses a published treatment manual (i.e., is manualized) to promote a consistent approach. Other studies incorporated peer-mediated and/or group-based approaches, and still others described interventions that focused on emotion identification and Theory of Mind training. The studies also varied in intensity, with most interventions consisting of 1–2 hour sessions/week lasting approximately 4–5 weeks. However, some of the group-based approaches lasted 15–16 weeks. Most studies reported short-term gains in either parent-rated social skills or directly tested emotion recognition. However, our confidence (strength of evidence) in that effect is low (Table B). Although we now have higher quality studies of social skills interventions that demonstrate positive effects, our ability to determine effectiveness continues to be limited by the diversity of the intervention protocols and measurement tools (i.e., no consistent outcome measures used across studies). Studies also included only participants considered “high functioning” and/or with IQ test scores >70, thus limiting generalization of results to children with more significant impairments. Maintenance and generalization of these skills beyond the intervention setting are also inconsistent, with parent and clinician raters noting variability in performance across environments. Play-/Interaction-Focused Studies Since our previous review, more studies of well-controlled joint attention interventions across a range of intervention settings (e.g., clinician, parent, teacher delivered) have been published. This growing evidence base includes 11 RCTs of good and fair quality and suggests that joint attention interventions may be associated with positive outcomes for toddler and preschool children with ASD, particularly when targeting joint attention skills themselves as well as related social communication and language skills (Table B). Although joint attention intervention studies demonstrated changes within this theoretically important domain, data are more limited about their ability to improve broad developmental skills (such as cognition, adaptive behavior, and ASD symptom severity) beyond direct measures of joint attention and related communication and language gains over time. ES-8 Specific training that used naturalistic approaches to promote imitation (e.g., Reciprocal Imitation Training) was associated with some improvements, not only in imitation skills, but also potentially in other social communication skills (such as joint attention). Additional ly, parent training in a variety of play-based interventions was associated with enhanced early social communication skills (e.g., joint attention, engagement, play interactions), play skills, and early language skills. Studies of Interventions Targeting Conditions Commonly Associated With ASD Six RCTs (five good and one fair quality) of interventions addressing conditions commonly associated with ASD identified for the current update measured anxiety symptoms as a primary