Teaching these skills in different settings helps students to generalize what they learned. • Leisure Skills. The ability to engage in independent leisure and recreation will help the student throughout their life. Translate the student’s special interest into age- appropriate recreational activities. • Self-Care During Adolescence. Adolescence and puberty bring many changes for an autistic teenager, so it is important to introduce hygiene and self-care skills. Visual aids can be useful for establishing new routines, including checklists for activities. Creating a hygiene kit so that all materials are located in one place could be helpful. (Please see the Resources section in this handbook) • Vocational Skills. Use the student’s strengths, skills, and interests to guide vocational activities in the IEP. • Mental Health and Physical Health. To maintain health into adulthood, skills useful to teach may include how to take medication, how to schedule doctor appointments, and how to prepare for appointments (e.g., bring personal identification and insurance cards). • Personal Relationship Skills. Explicitly teaching skills for communication and interaction can help with navigating various relationships (e.g., friend, partner, roommate, coworker). 65 APPENDIX A. RESOURCES About Autism A Brief Guide on Autism for Educators This guide provides a brief introduction for educators to increase understanding of autism and effective classroom strategies. From Vanderbilt Kennedy Center TRIAD . Addressing Mental Health Needs in Students with Autism Spectrum Disorders This online toolkit for school personnel and related professionals provides information, tools, and strategies to support students with autism and co-occurring mental health challenges. From Vanderbilt Kennedy Center TRIAD . Introduction to ASD This collection of resources provides parents and professionals with foundational information for understanding autism spectrum disorders. From Ohio Center for Autism and Low Incidence (OCALI) Autism Center . Neurodiversity in School Age Populations This toolkit for educators and school teams increases understanding of neurodiversity and how to promote neurodiversity in school environments. From Vanderbilt Kennedy Center TRIAD . Understanding Undiagnosed Autism in Females This article provides information on understanding why autism can be underdiagnosed in females. From UCLA Health . Autism Assessment Optimizing the Autism Eligibility Process in Schools: A Team-Based Approach This toolkit provides a framework for team-based, family- and student-centered autism evaluations that are data-focused and designed to identify the specific areas of educational impact to be targeted for intervention. From Vanderbilt Kennedy Center TRIAD . Parent Interview This form provides prompts to interview caregivers of a child who may have autism. It addresses background, health history, and family concerns with questions about the child’s communication, social, and behavioral characteristics as observed by the family. From the Oklahoma Autism Center . 66 School Observation Guide This guide provides a template for observing and recording student behaviors that may be indicators of possible autism. It provides clear descriptions and specific examples of behaviors typically observed in a classroom/school setting. From the Oklahoma Autism Center . Team-Based Approach Collaborative Teaming Case Studies These case studies feature real examples of successful collaboration and showcase how teamwork and collaboration benefit students and