specific interventions. Many early intervention studies found that children in all groups improved on ASD symptom measures regardless of intervention type, although the degree of improvement was often significantly greater in the treatment group. In many studies, results were confounded by nonrandom assignment of participants, including assignment based on child characteristics (such as having the skills necessary to participate in the intervention setting) or parental preference. The latter is especially problematic when outcomes are measured by parent report, given some evidence that parental stress influences parent perceptions of child outcomes. Additionally, in most studies, both enrolled and control/wait-listed children were receiving concomitant interventions, whose magnitude was inconsistently documented and controlled for in analyses. A remaining significant challenge to interpreting the early intensive intervention literature relates to how interventions are described and implemented. Although researchers are attempting to manualize approaches as well as operationalize and measure treatment fidelity, most of the body of literature categorized in this report as “early intensive behavioral and developmental intervention” remains an eclectic grouping. This category of intervention presently groups different treatment approaches (i.e., developmental, intensive behavioral, center based, and combinations), intensity (12 hours over 3 months vs. 30 hours over 1 week), and duration (weeks to years); varied inclusion and baseline assessment criteria; children of varying ages (intake age ranging from 18 months to 7 years); and many different outcome measurements over different periods of time (weeks to years). Manualizing intensive interventions to be delivered over the course of months and years for a heterogeneous patient population is intrinsically challenging. However, recent progress toward this end has shown that children may respond differentially to early intensive approaches. Few studies directly compared the effects of well-controlled treatment approaches, instead comparing interventions with nonspecific “treatment as usual,” which clearly lacks the level of control for expectancy bias in a placebo-controlled medication study. Additionally, little data on the practical effectiveness or feasibility of these treatments beyond research studies exist, and questions remain about whether reported findings would generalize on a larger scale within communities. Furthermore, the studies conducted have used small samples, drastically different ES-18 treatment approaches and duration, and different outcome measurements. Similarly, no studies reported harms of intervention in terms of child, family, or system impact. Although there was a fairly robust evidence base on CBT, the literature lacks head-to-head comparisons of treatment or controlled comparisons of combinations of treatments, despite the fact that most children are undergoing multiple concurrent treatments. Although the studies are well designed, the sample sizes are quite modest. Additionally, the CBT approaches were modified for children with ASD and often manualized by the study authors themselves. Research Gaps and Needs Given the heterogeneity of the expression of ASD across children, a critical area for further research is understanding which children are likely to benefit from particular interventions. To date, studies have failed to characterize adequately the characteristics of interventions (or the children receiving them) in a manner that helps clarify why certain children show more positive responses than others. It is