in family life and enjoy success at school. For more information on best practices, please see page 23. WE B LI N K S For information on current research, see the National Institute of Mental Health: http://www.nimh.nih.gov/health/topics/autism- spectrum-disorders-asd/index.shtml 6 A Parent’s Handbook: Your Guide to Autism Programs Assessment and Diagnosis British Columbia Autism Assessment Network (BCAAN) If you have concerns about your child’s development, please see your family doctor who may refer you to BCAAN for a diagnostic assessment. BCAAN provides diagnostic assessments for children up to age 19. Children can be diagnosed at any age, some as young as two years old. BCAAN will arrange for an assessment to be done as close to where you live as possible. There is no charge for BCAAN services. At the completion of the assessment, you will receive a BCAAN Clinical Outcomes Form. This form provides a summary of the testing results that will indicate whether your child has Autism Spectrum Disorder. Non-BCAAN (Private) Assessment and Diagnosis Families may obtain a non-BCAAN (private) diagnostic assessment completed by a private clinician. This assessment must meet the same standards as a BCAAN assessment (see the WEBLINKS ). Children under age six require a multidisciplinary diagnostic assessment. Children age six and older require a clinical diagnostic assessment (completed by an eligible professional clinician such as a paediatrician, child psychiatrist, or registered psychologist). All assessments for children of any age for the purposes of diagnosis must include the implementation of the Autism Diagnostic Observation Schedule (ADOS) and the Autism Diagnostic Interview-revised (ADI-r) by a clinician trained in the use of these assessment tools. The eligible clinician must complete a Non-BCAAN (Private) Diagnosis of Autism Spectrum Disorder Form to document a positive ASD diagnosis and all assessment reports must be submitted to the child’s local MCFD office before the family is able to apply for autism programs. Parents are responsible for any costs charged for the private assessment. Moving to B.C. from Another Province If your child has had a diagnostic assessment of ASD from another province in Canada and you are applying for the Ministry of Children and Family Development (MCFD) autism programs, a Confirmation of Diagnosis Form must be completed by a qualified B.C. specialist (paediatrician, psychiatrist or registered psychologist). Moving to B.C. from Another Country If your child has had a diagnostic assessment of ASD from another country and you are applying for MCFD autism programs, a Confirmation of Diagnosis Form must be completed by a qualified B.C. specialist (paediatrician, psychiatrist or registered psychologist). If the out of country diagnostic assessment does not meet B.C. Standards, the qualified B.C. specialist may require your child to have a new diagnostic assessment within B.C. before applying for autism programs. You can obtain the Non-BCAAN (Private) Diagnosis of Autism Spectrum Disorder and Confirmation of Diagnosis forms from the WEBLINK on page 7 or by calling MCFD at 1-844-878-4700. 7 WE B LI N K S BCAAN: www.phsa.ca/AgenciesAndServices/Services/ Autism/default.htm Standards and Guidelines for the Assessment and Diagnosis of