a shortened day/week is appropriate. Educating students and families about other laws, such as Section 504 and the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), becomes more important for young adults with autism. Section 504 is a federal law designed to protect the rights of individuals with disabilities in programs and activities that receive federal financial assistance from the U.S. Department of Education (ED). The ADA protects individuals with disabilities from discrimination in employment, state and local government activities, public transportation, public accommodations, and telecommunications and relay services. High school transition-planning teams, including students and families, need to be aware that students will be required to self-disclose their disability to the proper postsecondary contact to receive accommodations and services. In addition, secondary planning teams and parents must understand that although accommodations and modifications are available, their use is far more limited at the college level. Thus, the use of accommodations and modifications at the secondary level should be carefully examined and the student should be involved in discussions related to why each is needed, how it is used, and what benefits it provides. 61 Transition Planning The goal of the transition plan in the Individualized Education Program (IEP) is to facilitate movement from school to the world of postsecondary education, adult work, living, and community participation. Transition planning is a process to assist students in identifying and building the skills and supports they need to make progress towards their postsecondary goals. Successful transition planning requires support from multiple sources so the student and family can make choices, develop connections, and access services prior to leaving high school. Planning early and building goals related to life skills, postsecondary education, or employment into the transition plan in the IEP breaks the process into manageable steps. It also helps engage an accessible, ongoing support system of transition team members. Transition planning is not a single conversation but rather a progression that will evolve over time and should reflect the continuing development and changing needs of the student with autism. It is required by IDEA to review and update the transition plan at least annually to ensure that it is responsive to the student’s current needs and interests. Three critical factors in the transition process that should always remain at the center of the team’s efforts are: • Quality of life as a valued outcome • Individualizing transition planning for the student • Facilitating student participation in as much of the transition planning as possible (e.g., independence and self-determination) Members of the Transition Team The transition team should include the student, parents, and members of the IEP team working together to help the student make decisions about goals for life after high school. Although schools are responsible for initiating transition planning, team members do not need to be limited to school personnel. Instead, teams should include anyone who knows the student well and who may know about what supports and services the student may need. The process can begin with an initial team meeting to identify