of intervention. Independent Clinical Evaluators (ICEs) blinded to the participant’s condition assigned DSM-IV diagnoses and provided summary codes of clinical severity and interferences called Clinician Severity Ratings. Group differences in severity ratings were noted for all anxiety diagnoses with medium to large effect sizes. The overall number of anxiety disorders at followup was significantly reduced in the intervention group, and there was a large effect size noted in the reduction of generalized anxiety disorder diagnoses. There were no group differences noted in diagnostic status for other anxiety diagnoses. Significant improvement was noted on the CGI-S in the intervention group as compared with the control group (effect size 1.03 and p=0.003). The SCARED was repeated at 3 and 6 months for the intervention group and indicated that reduction in anxiety symptoms had been maintained. A third good quality RCT investigated the effects of the Coping Cat CBT program on anxiety symptoms in 22 children ages 7 to 14 with diagnosis of ASD and at least one primary anxiety disorder. 176 Twelve children were assigned to the intervention group and the remaining 10 children were enrolled as waitlisted controls. There were no baseline group differences with the exception of more children in the control group receiving stimulant medications. The intervention consisted of 16 weekly 60 to 90 minute CBT sessions following the Coping Cat treatment manual. Anxiety measures were repeated just after completion of the intervention and 59 again at 2 months after completion of treatment. At the completion of the intervention, 58 percent of the intervention group compared with 0 percent of the control group no longer met criteria for a primary anxiety disorder (p=0.003). Spence Children’s Anxiety Scale ratings improved significantly in the intervention group (34.92 to 20.08) but not in the control group (32.3 to 31.7) (p=0.02). Co-morbid diagnoses decreased in the intervention group compared with control group from baseline to end of intervention (p<0.001). After 2 months, four of 11 intervention group participants continued to not meet requirements for anxiety disorder diagnosis. The authors reported a number needed to treat for the intervention of 1.72. A good quality RCT conducted in Singapore compared the effects of CBT to an established social recreational intervention on anxiety symptoms. 174 Seventy children with ASD diagnoses, verbal IQ>80, and perceptual reasoning IQ>90 were randomly assigned to the CBT group (n=36) or social recreational group (n=34). The CBT group had slightly higher verbal IQ (100.25 in CBT group compared with 93.06 in social recreational group), otherwise there were no significant differences between groups. The CBT group underwent 16 weekly 90 minute small group CBT sessions. The social recreation group underwent 16 weekly 90 minute small group sessions following a manualized treatment protocol that included activities aimed at independent living, self-engagement, motor coordination, intellectual stimulation and socialization. The Spence anxiety scale and CGI-S were repeated at the end of treatment, 3 months and 6 months after the end of treatment. Both groups demonstrated reduction in anxiety on the Spence scale between baseline and at