gains in early language comprehension and production. In a retrospective cohort study of a community-based early intervention program, outcomes were related to age at enrollment, treatment duration, and higher baseline adaptive scores. A significant interaction emerged between age at enrollment and group membership, with younger starting age influencing outcomes for the treatment group but not the waitlist control. 86 In contrast to the early intervention studies, in an RCT assessing emotion recognition, older age was correlated with improved identification of fear expressions, affect recognition, and the mind reading desire based task. 123 Another RCT of a preschool-based joint attention intervention compared an 8-week treatment program focused on increasing initiating, giving, and sharing joint attention skills plus preschool to preschool alone in 61 children with ASD. 155 In exploratory analyses, investigators found no putative moderators (age, developmental quotient, language age, 70 program philosophy) to be significant, suggesting that the intervention may be applicable across developmental levels. IQ/Cognition Associations of outcome and IQ or measures of cognition were mixed across studies. Intervention efficacy was associated with baseline cognitive scores in one early intervention study comparing preschool models classrooms, 83 with higher baseline cognitive scores associated with less improvement in children in TEACCH model classrooms. In an early intervention prospective cohort study, baseline IQ was positively correlated with socialization, communication, daily living, and composite score gains on the Vineland in the treatment group; however, baseline IQ did not correlate with IQ at followup. 77 In another early intervention study, higher pre-treatment mental development state and early language skills predicted better outcome on parent-reported adaptive behaviors in the eclectic treatment group. 101 , 102 In a study assessing emotion recognition, higher verbal IQ was associated with some short term improvements in fear recognition and mind reading tasks, 123 while in another emotion recognition RCT, IQ was not correlated with improved outcomes in either the treatment or control groups. 132 In another RCT of a group-based social skills approach, IQ was not associated with response status; 124 similarly, treatment gains were not associated with IQ in an RCT comparing parent training plus risperidone to risperidone alone. 167 , 179-181 In one study of CBT focused on executive function outcomes, higher baseline scores predicted greater improvements in flexible thinking, social tasks, parent- and teacher-rated executive function shift and planning/organization measure, parent-rated Social Responsiveness Scale total score (p values <0.05). Higher IQ predicted greater improvements in flexible thinking and the challenge task plan measure. Younger age predicted greater improvement on the challenge task and parent-rated executive function measures of shift and planning/organization (p<0.05). Female sex predicted greater improvement on the parent –rated Social Responsiveness Scale total score (p values <0.05). 183 In a play-interaction study targeting imitation and joint attention, higher baseline verbal IQ was associated with gains in imitation in the treatment group (p<.05), but no other variables tested (age, mental age, full scale IQ, performance IQ, baseline imitation and joint attention skills) were statistically significant. Children in the treatment group improved equally regardless of age