Finding Symptom severity Low for positive effect RCT: 3 good, 3 fair (361) Prospective cohort: 1 good, 1 fair, 2 poor, (203) Low Inconsistent Direct Imprecise Undetected Many studies found that treatment groups had improved ASD symptoms relative to controls. However, a significant limitation is that the measure of symptom severity varied across studies and was inconsistently defined, from videotaped behavioral observations to standardized parent report forms like the GARS to interactive assessments like the ADOS. This makes it difficult to meaningfully compare outcomes across studies. Language/ commun- ication Low for positive effect RCT: 4 good, 6 fair, 1 poor (664) nRCT: 1 poor (22) Prospective cohort: 2 good, 2 poor (176) Low Inconsistent Direct Precise Undetected Parent training was associated with improvements in language (low SOE for improvements), but interventions and comparators were different across studies, as were the outcome measures. More studies are needed to confirm results. Of studies that assessed language outcomes, two possible child variables influencing treatment efficacy emerged. The first is that younger child age was associated with greater language improvements at followup in two studies. Second, another study found that higher baseline levels of object interest in children were associated with attenuated growth in communication skills. ADOS = Autism Diagnostic Observation Schedule; GARS = Gilliam Autism Rating Scale; nRCT = nonrandomized controlled trial; RCT = randomized controlled trial 85 Social Skills Studies In addition to the nine comparative studies assessing social skills included in the 2011 review (eight RCTs of fair 114-116 and poor 117-121 quality and one poor quality retrospective cohort 122 ),we located 13 studies addressing interventions targeting social skills for this review update. The overall quality of studies improved compared with the previous review with two good quality and 10 fair quality studies, and one of poor quality. Social skills interventions varied widely in terms of scope and intensity. A few studies replicated interventions using the manualized Skillstreaming model; one reported longer term results from research on the Children’s Friendship Training model. Other studies incorporated peer-mediated and/or group-based approaches, and still others described interventions that focused on emotion identification and theory of mind training. The studies also varied in intensity, with most interventions consisting of 1-2 hour sessions/week lasting for approximately 4-5 weeks. However, some of the group- based approaches lasted for 15-16 weeks. Most studies reported some short term gains in either parent-rated social skills or directly tested emotion recognition. However, our confidence (strength of evidence) in that effect is low. While we now have higher quality investigations of social skills interventions demonstrating positive effects, our ability to determine the effectiveness of these interventions continues to be limited by the diversity of the intervention protocols and measurement tools (i.e., no consistent outcome measures used across studies). Maintenance and generalization of these skills beyond the intervention setting is also inconsistent, with parent- and clinician-raters noting variability in performance across settings. No studies reported harms of intervention. Strength of the Evidence The strength of evidence for the effect of social skills interventions