teacher uses a “get ready” cue by holding up her hand and saying “get ready” to gain student attention. Next, the teacher says, “Let’s sound out the word and points to m_a_n.” Row two includes examples of student responses (also called behaviors) following the cue/instruction described above in row one. In this example, in response to the teacher’s verbal cue and instruction, the students either sound out the word incorrectly, or they Teacher Response (Consequences) Student Response (Behavior) Cue/Instruction (Antecedent) Teacher uses a "get ready" cue by holding up her hand and saying "get ready" to gain student attention. Teacher says, "Let's sound out the word and points to m_a_n." Students sound out word incorrectly. Incorrect Response: Teacher provides correction for the group with a verbal model and asks group to respond again. Group responds correctly and gets a point. Students sounds out the word "man" in unison. Correct Response: Teacher praises students for paying attention to the cue and adds points to student cards to trade-in for a favorite game to play. 46 sound out the word “man” in unison. Row three includes examples of teacher responses depending on the students’ behavior. If the students respond incorrectly, the teacher provides correction for the group with a verbal model and asks the group to respond again. Then the group responds correctly and gets a point. Alternatively, if the students respond correctly following the initial cue/instruction, the teacher praises the students for paying attention to the cue and adds points to the students’ cards to trade-in for a favorite game to play. 47 Example 3 The chart below demonstrates how one antecedent can result in multiple behaviors (i.e., responses) with differing consequences that impact learning outcomes. This example is particularly important to consider when strategies to reduce behaviors are discussed. Alt Text Long Description for Example 3 Diagram Above: This diagram includes four columns. Column one includes a cue/instruction (also called an antecedent or an opportunity to respond). In this example, the teacher asks the student to complete a worksheet. Column two includes examples of student responses (also called behaviors or responses from the student that you want to increase, decrease, or maintain). In this example, in response to the teacher’s cue, the student either begins working right away, or the student fiddles with paper and looks out the window. Column three includes examples of teacher responses to the student’s behavior (also called consequences, and most effective when delivered immediately). If the student begins working right away, the teacher smiles and gives a thumbs up. If the student fiddles with paper and looks out the window, the teacher can either reprimand the student or praise other students for “getting Result The outcome of the event. Consequence Teacher response to student's behavior. Most effective delivered immediately. Behavior Response from student you want to increase, decrease, or maintain. Antecedent Opportunities to respond; can be cue or instruction. Teacher asks student to complete a worksheet Student begins working right away Teacher smiles and gives