that had a primarily behavioral approach combined with another approach (e.g., medical). We again adopted an approach of assessing effects on core symptoms as well as commonly associated symptoms. Changes in commonly adopted diagnostic criteria related to ASD have changed in the interim since the previous report. These changes include additions to the core symptoms of ASD (e.g., hypo/hyper-sensory reactivity now a core feature). 3 Our approach to the 3 review encompassed both core and associated symptoms, and neither inclusion nor interpretation was affected by whether specific outcomes were considered core or associated. Key Questions As noted, this review is focused on behavioral treatments for children ages 0-12 with ASD or very young children at risk of a diagnosis of ASD. We have synthesized evidence in the published literature to address these Key Questions (KQ): KQ1: Among children ages 2-12 with ASD, what are the short and long- term effects of available behavioral treatment approaches? Specifically, KQ1a: What are the effects on core symptoms (e.g., social communication and interaction, restricted and repetitive behaviors), in the short term (≤6 months)? KQ1b: What are the effects on commonly associated symptoms (e.g., motor, medical, mo od/anxiety, irritability, and hyperactivity) in the short term (≤6 months)? KQ1c: What are the longer-term effects (>6 months) on core symptoms (e.g., social communication and interaction, restricted and repetitive behaviors)? KQ1d: What are the longer-term effects (>6 months) on commonly associated symptoms (e.g., motor, medical, mood/anxiety, irritability, and hyperactivity)? KQ2: Among children ages 2-12, what are the modifiers of outcome for different behavioral treatments or approaches? KQ2a: Is the effectiveness of the therapies reviewed affected by the frequency, duration, and intensity of the intervention? KQ2b: Is the effectiveness of the therapies reviewed affected by the training and/or experience of the individual providing the therapy? KQ2c: What characteristics, if any, of the child modify the effectiveness of the therapies reviewed? KQ2d: What characteristics, if any, of the family modify the effectiveness of the therapies reviewed? KQ3: Are there any identifiable changes early in the treatment phase that predict treatment outcomes? KQ4: What is the evidence that effects measured at the end of the treatment phase predict long-term functional outcomes? KQ5 : What is the evidence that specific intervention effects measured in the treatment context generalize to other contexts (e.g., people, places, materials)? KQ6: What evidence supports specific components of behavioral treatment as driving outcomes, either within a single treatment or across treatments? 4 KQ7 : What evidence supports the use of a specific behavioral treatment approach in children under the age of 2 who are at high risk of developing ASD based on behavioral, medical, or genetic risk factors? Organization of This Report The report describes our review methods including our search strategy, inclusion and exclusion criteria, approach to review of abstracts and full publications, and our method for extraction of data into the evidence table and compiling evidence. We also describe the approach to grading of the quality of the literature and to evaluating the strength of the