body of evidence. The results section synthesizes the findings by category of behavioral intervention (see Categorization of Interventions below). We report the number of comparative studies fully described in the 2011 review, the number and type identified for the current review, and any overlap of studies (i.e., those reporting followup data) between the prior and this current review. We make our conclusions and assess the strength of evidence on the cumulative, comparative evidence across the original report and update. 39 We differentiate between total numbers of publications and unique studies to bring into focus the number of duplicate publications in this literature in which multiple publications are derived from the same study population. We also integrate discussion of sub-questions within that for each Key Question because there was not adequate distinction in the literature to address them separately. Full details of the results of studies addressed in the prior review can be found in that report. 39 The report’s discussion section expands on methodologic considerations relevant to each Key Question and outlines the strength of the evidence for key outcomes, current state of the literature and challenges for future research on ASD. The report includes a number of appendixes to provide further detail on our methods and the studies assessed. The appendixes are as follows: • Appendix A: Search Strategies and Results • Appendix B: Screening and Quality Assessment Forms • Appendix C: Evidence Tables • Appendix D: Quality of the Literature • Appendix E: Excluded Studies • Appendix F: Characteristics and Outcomes of Studies of Early Intensive Behavioral and Developmental Interventions • Appendix G: Applicability Summary Tables. A list of abbreviations and acronyms used in the report follows the References section. Categorization of Interventions In line with the 2011 review, we categorized behavioral interventions as follows: early intensive behavioral and developmental interventions, social skills interventions, parent training, play/interaction-focused interventions, interventions targeting symptoms commonly associated with ASD such as anxiety, and other general behavioral approaches. This categorization was largely driven by an end user perspective (i.e., taking into account how parents, clinicians, and 5 systems of care might attempt to access or support intervention decisions). Thus, we categorized studies based on treatment setting/context rather than outcomes examined. As noted previously, 39 ASD intervention categories overlap substantially, and it is difficult to cleanly identify the category into which an intervention should be placed. 38 We acknowledge that multiple approaches for organizing the results could be used; however, we retained the categorization used in the 2011 review. We note that alternative approaches are unlikely to change our overall findings either in terms of outcomes or strength of evidence for any category of intervention. Early intensive behavioral and developmental interventions. We adopted a similar approach to the operationalization of the early intensive behavioral and developmental intervention category as Rogers and Vismara in their review of “comprehensive” evidence-based treatments for early ASD. 43 Interventions in this category all have their basis in or draw from principles of ABA, with differences in methods and setting.