confirms which services and supports were rendered and that payment was made for those services and supports. 9. Unspent funds must be clearly identified in the space provided on the Accountant Confirmation Form. 10. At the end of a funding period a prepayment of $1,500 will be made for the next funding period for autism intervention expenses. 11. Funding that is unspent at the end of a funding period will count as part of the new funding period’s $6,000 total. 12. The remainder of the funds for the new funding period will be released once the AFB receives, processes and approves the required paperwork, provided a valid Direct Payment Agreement is in place. Funding for each funding period will not exceed a total of $6,000. 13. If an agreement signatory does not submit the completed Accountant Confirmation Form with supporting documentation to account for the $6,000 autism funding received for a funding period they will no longer be eligible to access funding using the Direct Payment method. The agreement signatory will only be able to access future autism funding through the Invoice Payment method. 14. All documentation submitted to MCFD is subject to audit. If it is found that autism funding was spent on ineligible equipment, supports and/or services, the parent/legal guardian who signed the Direct Payment Agreement will be required to pay the ineligible amount back to MCFD. 32 A Parent’s Handbook: Your Guide to Autism Programs 15. If the parent/legal guardian fails to comply with any of his or her obligations under the Direct Payment Agreement, the Province may immediately terminate the Direct Payment Agreement by providing written notice and may pursue any other remedies the Province considers necessary or appropriate. 16. If a Direct Payment Agreement has been cancelled due to non-compliance with the Agreement obligations, the family will still be able to access autism funding through the Invoice Payment method, but will be no longer be eligible to access future funding through the Direct Payment method. 17. If a Direct Payment Agreement ends or is cancelled, a cheque for the unspent funds and/or amounts for ineligible items must be provided to the AFB. 33 34 A Parent’s Handbook: Your Guide to Autism Programs Information for Service Providers General Information The Ministry of Children and Family Development provides two autism programs: 1. Autism Funding: Under Age 6 (for more information, please see pages 10-13). 2. Autism Funding: Ages 6-18 (for more information, please see pages 14-15). • The funding programs are intended to assist families with the cost of purchasing eligible autism intervention services (based on best practices) to promote their child’s communication, social-emotional, pre-academic, academic, and functional life skills development. • Families are able to select eligible services and/or service providers that best fit with their child and family. For more details on eligible services and service providers, please see pages 10-15. • All families accessing autism funding are able to access their funding using the ‘invoice payment’ option where funding for the child is set