data limited understanding of whether these interventions were linked to specific clinically meaningful changes in functioning. Information was similarly lacking on modifiers of effectiveness, generalization of effects outside the treatment context, components of multicomponent therapies that drive effectiveness, and predictors of treatment success. Since the publication of the initial review in 2011, a sizable body of research has been published, particularly addressing behavioral interventions. Additional studies of behavioral interventions have the greatest potential to alter the low and insufficient strength of evidence reported in the original review and may potentially be used to update treatment recommendations due to the number of new studies available. For this reason, the current review update focuses on studies of behavioral interventions. Key Questions We focused this review on behavioral treatments for children ages 2–12 with ASD and children younger than age 2 at risk of a diagnosis of ASD. We synthesized evidence in the published literature to address the following Key Questions (KQs). KQ 1: Among children ages 2–12 with ASD, what are the short- and long- term effects of available behavioral treatment approaches? Specifically— KQ 1a: What are the effects on core symptoms (e.g., social communication and interaction, restricted and repetitive behaviors) in the short term (≤6 months)? KQ 1b: What are the effects on commonly associated symptoms (e.g., motor, medical, mood/anxiety, irritability, and hyperactivity) in the short term (≤6 months)? KQ 1c: What are the longer term effects (>6 months) on core symptoms (e.g., social communication and interaction, restricted and repetitive behaviors)? KQ 1d: What are the longer term effects (>6 months) on commonly associated symptoms (e.g., motor, medical, mood/anxiety, irritability, and hyperactivity)? KQ 2: Among children ages 2–12, what are the modifiers of outcome for different behavioral treatments or approaches? ES-2 KQ 2a: Is the effectiveness of the therapies reviewed affected by the frequency, duration, and intensity of the intervention? KQ 2b: Is the effectiveness of the therapies reviewed affected by the training and/or experience of the individual providing the therapy? KQ 2c: What characteristics, if any, of the child modify the effectiveness of the therapies reviewed? KQ 2d: What characteristics, if any, of the family modify the effectiveness of the therapies reviewed? KQ 3: Are there any identifiable changes early in the treatment phase that predict treatment outcomes? KQ 4: What is the evidence that effects measured at the end of the treatment phase predict long-term functional outcomes? KQ 5: What is the evidence that specific intervention effects measured in the treatment context generalize to other contexts (e.g., people, places, materials)? KQ 6: What evidence supports specific components of behavioral treatment as driving outcomes, either within a single treatment or across treatments? KQ 7: What evidence supports the use of a specific behavioral treatment approach in children under the age of 2 who are at high risk of developing ASD based on behavioral, medical, or genetic risk factors? Uses of This Report We anticipate that the report will be of value to clinicians who treat children with ASD, who can