often relied on various and differing ways of marking change, which has limited our ability to understand change within and across individual studies. 201 The manner in which outcomes are operationalized in many studies is often problematic as well. Quite often outcome is operationalized and studied in terms of change on standardized measures of ability referencing normative populations (i.e., IQ measurement, adaptive behavior scores), which may not necessarily be an appropriate or adequate method for measuring or predicting early treatment response, changes in quality of life, or long-term functional outcomes. Such measurement, while providing data that can be compared with that in typically developing populations, may unfortunately miss important information about changes that are relevant within the ASD population. More simply, it is unclear that measures of cognitive ability, language, and ASD diagnostic symptoms are actually ideal or adequately sensitive methods for measuring frequency, intensity, and impairment in children with ASD. Research on appropriate methods to capture meaningful change will be critical to advance our understanding of behavioral interventions. In addition, while studies have improved in reporting a priori determined primary and secondary outcome measures, continued improvements in reporting will benefit the field. In some aspects of the literature treatments with some replicated studies have emerged. Specifically both social skills interventions and cognitive behavioral interventions for anxiety have demonstrated short-term benefit for some children with ASD. However, this literature focuses almost entirely on older children with ASD and intact cognitive skills. Understanding the impact or lack thereof of such interventions for others with ASD is important. Further, this work has often relied on parent or teacher reports of functioning to gauge change. Such reporting may be useful as a preliminary index or potentially as a component of a broader measurement strategy attempting to index change, but reliance these ratings provides only an intermediate and often 102 biased assessment of change, with potentially very limited value to understanding how interventions translate in to meaningful long-term functional outcomes. Because the treatment process for ASD is typically intensive and often requires highly specific and well-trained individuals to deliver to fidelity, questions of feasibility and accessibility are pertinent but largely understudied. Explicit evaluation of treatments of highest impact in community settings as well as studies explicitly evaluating settings and providers would benefit our ability to understand impact and implementation. Finally, this literature lacks comparisons of interventions and combinations of interventions (e.g., medical interventions, with behavioral interventions, with educational interventions, with allied health interventions), despite the fact that most children are undergoing multiple concurrent treatments. The current review also focused solely on behavioral interventions. Systematic reviews of studies of interventions in other categories (e.g., medical, allied health) would provide useful information for clinicians, researchers, policy makers, and families. Conclusions Since our previous review in 2011, we have seen a significant increase in the quality of studies investigating behavioral interventions. Of the 45 comparative studies of behavioral interventions (29 RCTs) in the 2011 review, we considered only two as good quality. Among the new studies of