for autism funding and the 20% of the annual funding is not exceeded. The date on the purchase receipt will determine the funding period from which the transaction is processed • A JFE is not a guarantee that an item will be eligible for autism funding. It is recommended that families wait to purchase items only after the JFE has been approved. The cost of items that are not eligible will not be reimbursed • The items purchased as per specifications on an approved JFE will remain the sole property of the child and family. Other avenues of funding for equipment purchases or loans must be explored. Purchases must not duplicate those that would be approved under SET-BC, the At Home Program, other agencies providing equipment or that are typical expense for a child. Please see the WEBLINK below for more information on SET-BC. Computers and/or Touch Screen Tablets • Requests to purchase a computer, touch screen tablet or smart phone must be made in writing through a JFE written by a child’s professional/specialist. • A child’s autism funding can be used to purchase one laptop OR one desktop computer; OR one touch screen tablet (e.g., an iPad OR an ipod touch OR smart phone) once every three years (monthly phone bills or data plans are not eligible expenses and will not be paid). WE B LI N K S Justification for Equipment and Supplies Form: https://gov.bc.ca/autism-forms-resources SET-BC: www.setbc.org Autism Funding: Ages 6-18 Ineligible Expenses Some interventions and equipment recommended by a professional/specialist are ineligible expenses. The following are some examples of ineligible items: • Home repairs, renovations, swimming pools, hot tubs, trampolines, playground equipment • Household items, including appliances • General recreation and sports enrolment fees • Sports/fitness equipment • Televisions • Vitamins, medical supplies, orthotics • Clothing • Food (however, small reinforcers for therapy may be eligible) • Any items to be used only in school settings • Monthly smart phone bills and/or data plans The following are some examples of services that are ineligible: • Child care • Respite • General recreation lessons • Medical services • Psychoeducational assessments • Services provided out of province, and associated travel Not all ineligible expenses are listed. It is recommended that families contact the Autism Funding Branch at 1 877 777-3530 for more information before purchasing items. 15 Tip for Parents Your child will be eligible for funding from the first day of the month that MCFD receives all required documents. It is suggested that you mail or fax copies of the required documents to your local MCFD office before your meeting with a CYSN Worker (see Contact Us in weblinks on this page). The CYSN Worker will review the documents to ensure that they are complete. Tip for Parents In addition to autism programs, MCFD provides a range of supports for families of children and youth with support needs. The CYSN Worker will provide you with information about these supports. WE B LI N K S To find a