about what he enjoys). The special education teacher offered to contact Michael’s fifth grade teachers to learn more about what strategies were effective for him before the transition to middle school, and the school psychologist volunteered to schedule a meeting with Michael’s parents. The school psychologist also consulted with Michael’s speech-language pathologist since her schedule did not permit her to attend the grade-level staff meeting. The speech-language pathologist shared about his preferred reinforcers and visual support strategies she uses to facilitate transitions when working one-on-one with Michael, and she reported they have been helpful. The IEP team meeting arranged by the school psychologist included Michael’s parents, science teacher, art teacher, sixth-grade counselor, sixth-grade principal, and speech language pathologist. Other team members were unable to attend due to their schedules during the school day, so the sixth-grade counselor took notes and shared with the team. During the meeting, Michael’s parents expressed their concerns about his difficulties adjusting to the middle school environment, and school team members were understanding and supportive. They normalized Michael’s parents’ concerns and talked positively overall about his progress so far. Michael’s teachers reported challenges observed, and they described the strengths they have seen in Michael, such as his motivation to complete independent activities with creative elements, like the option to respond with pictures and drawings instead of text. With parent input, the team identified Michael’s interests and skills in art and music. Michael’s parents gave their permission for the school psychologist to gather information about when Michael’s challenging behaviors are occurring across the day, and what happens just before and after. The team set a date in two weeks to review the findings and agree upon a behavior plan tailored to Michael’s unique strengths and needs. Between meetings, Michael’s teachers regularly communicated with his parents about what was going well for him at school while acknowledging challenges and expressing optimism for the plan in development. The team reconvened two weeks later and reviewed data indicating Michael’s challenging behaviors increase during less structured classroom activities and in situations when student expectations are unclear. With input from Michael’s 17 general education teachers, the school psychologist and speech language pathologist partnered to create a laminated visual schedule of his daily routine on one side, and a first-then visual support strategy on the other side that could be used to aid Michael’s teachers in communicating with him about behavioral expectations and provide clear opportunities for Michael to access motivators after successful completion of assigned tasks (e.g., five minutes drawing time after completing his assignment, talking with the teacher or counselor for five minutes about his favorite musical instruments). With input from team members, Michael’s special education teacher collaborated with the school psychologist and assistant principal to develop a safety plan so everyone on the team will know what to do when Michael leaves the classroom without permission. They incorporated steps to teach Michael how to appropriately take a break within the classroom or by asking for a pass to the resource