a wait-list control group (n=6). The treatment group consisted of weekly 2-hour sessions, with 20 sessions over 6 months. The control group consisted of group meetings with the mothers on a bi-monthly basis, consisting of 30-60 minute meetings with two social workers. Participants in the treatment group showed moderate improvement in adaptive behaviors and social reciprocity of the children, parenting stress, and parent–child interactions compared with the control group. Two RCTs 124 , 125 and one nonrandomized controlled trial 138 assessed interventions targeting social skills and incorporating typically developing peers or siblings. Studies included 21 to 60 participants, generally with high functioning ASD. One RCT examined short-term outcomes of a trial of an outpatient peer tutor social skills training program. 124 The study included 44 children (mean age=9 years, IQ>70) who met criteria for a pervasive developmental disorder. Sixteen out of 23 participants in the treatment group were considered treatment responders as rated by their parents, compared with 0/18 in the control arm (p≤.001). Children with Asperger syndrome were more likely to be responders compared with children with PDD-NOS (p=.03); IQ was not associated with response status. No significant differences were found between the treatment group and wait list group on social competence measures. A second fair quality RCT evaluated child-directed social skills training (CHILD) compared with peer-mediated social skills training (PEER) applied to children with high-functioning autism attending regular education classrooms. 125 The study included 60 children (mean age=8.14, mean IQ=90.7) randomized to one of four treatment groups (n=15/group): 1) CHILD group 2) PEER group 3) CHILD+PEER and 4) a control group. Treatment occurred over 6 weeks. In the CHILD condition, it included 1:1 training and practice in social skills targeting deficits identified for each child. In the PEER arm, it included peer interaction focused on positive social modeling. Participants who received PEER interventions (PEER alone or PEER+CHILD) showed significant improvements in social network salience (prominence of a child within the classroom social network) compared with the othe r groups (p≤.006). At the final followup 12 weeks after the end of the intervention, salience remained higher for the 42 CHILD+PEER arm compared with CHILD alone and the control group but not compared with PEER alone. Teacher ratings of social skills also improved from baseline to final followup for the peer-mediated group as did measures of solitary engagement and joint attention. One fair quality, non-randomized trial examined the effectiveness of including siblings in social skills training groups for boys with Asperger’s Syndrome. 131 The study included 21 children with Asperger syndrome between the ages of 8 and 12. Investigators partially randomized participants to one of three treatment groups (first 15 randomly assigned to one of three groups; later recruits assigned based on whether they had an older sibling; if no sibling, participants were randomly assigned to “no sibling” training or wait-list control group). Eight weekly 2-hour sessions treatment sessions were held in a clinical setting. Treatment sessions included content covering nonverbal social cues, such as eye contact, body language, tone