on age at baseline (p<.05); IQ, mental age, and language comprehension improved significantly for G1 vs. G2 after 24 months of intervention (p≤.05); effect size for IQ change=0.77 • Vineland daily living and motor skills scores improved for G1 vs. G2 (p<.05) but composite, communication, severity, and socialization scores did not differ significantly between groups at the 24 month followup • Parents noted more positive social behavior for G1 vs. G2 at the 24 month followup; responders had higher IQ, higher mental age, higher Vineland composite, communication, and socialization scores, lower motor skills, more behavior problems, and more autistic symptoms and fewer hours of intervention in Year 2; at 2-year followup no significant group differences in IQ, adaptive behavior, communication, socialization, or behavior; more G1 participants achieved standard score on receptive language measure vs. G2 (p=.048) • In analyses of G1 participants in privately purchased vs. publicly funded early intensive intervention programs, IQ declined for publicly funded group compared with control or privately purchased participants (p<.0001); privately purchased participants maintained IQ and adaptive behavior gains from end of intervention to the 2 year followup. Publicly funded group had more severe ASD symptoms, lower adaptive behavior, and received less intensive intervention than the privately purchased group ABA = applied behavior analysis; ADOS = Autism Diagnostic Observation Schedule; ASD = autism spectrum disorder; CARS = Childhood Autism Rating Scale; G-group; IQ = intelligence quotient; LEAP = Learning Experiences and Alternate Program for Preschoolers and their Parents; N = number; PDD-NOS = Pervasive Developmental Disorder-Not Otherwise Specified; SD = standard deviation; TEACCH = Treatment and Education of Autistic and Related Communication-Handicapped Children 29 Parent Training Approaches One good quality RCT examining parent training 96 was conducted in Australia and compared two variations of the Building Blocks® program—home or center-based-- to waitlisted controls. The program targeted social and communication skill development. Mean child ages at enrollment ranged from 41.5 to 43.7 months. Mean IQs ranged from 57-66. Treatment duration was 40 weeks. Not all enrolled children had autism spectrum diagnoses; the breakdown was 100 percent of the home-based group, 82.8 percent of the center-based group, and 78.6 percent of the control group. To be enrolled in the center-based group, children had to have a baseline level of “social maturity,” a lack of “high levels” of problem behavior, and parents willing to attend sessions. The home-based group (n at followup=27) received individualized 2-hour visits every 2 weeks in the home environment. Center-based children (n=29) received weekly manualized, 2- hour, center-based sessions in small groups of 4 to 6 children, as well as parent training and a parent support group. The control group (n=28) comprised a non-randomized treatment comparison waitlist. All groups received concomitant additional interventions classified as educational (home-based: 2.37 interventions±1.28; center-based: 2.41±1.50; control: 3.11±1.64) or ASD-specific (home-based: .22±.42; center-based: .14±.35; control: .54±.79). Providers were multidisciplinary teams of teachers, speech-language pathologists, occupational therapists and psychologists. Children in all three groups showed significant improvements in Vineland Communication scores. Compared with the home-based group, children receiving center-based