be deliberate planning for times of transition such as preschool to kindergarten; middle school to high school; high school to adulthood; etc.. • For youth, there should be planned opportunities to develop skills to improve quality of life (e.g., employment; recreation; hobbies; social networks; etc.). • Behaviour Interventionists must receive ongoing supervision and training by qualified professionals. • There must be regular, ongoing monitoring of the child’s progress by a professional or team of professionals For more information on best practices go to: The US National Standards Project: http://www.nationalautismcenter.org/national-standards-project/ The US National Professional Development Center on ASD: http://autismpdc.fpg.unc.edu The US Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality: http://www.ahrq.gov The UK National Institute for Health and Care Excellence: https://www.nice.org.uk/guidance/cg170 National Research Council (2001). Educating Children with Autism. Committee on Educational Interventions for Children with Autism, Division of Behavioral and Social Sciences and Education. Washington, DC: National Academy Press. 23 Definitions In general, treatment for ASD can be categorized into three over arching models: Applied Behaviour Analytic Approaches including Applied Behaviour Analysis and Positive Behaviour Support; Developmental Social Pragmatic Approaches; and Comprehensive, Naturalistic Developmental Behavioural Interventions (NDBIs), or combined approaches. Applied Behaviour Analysis (ABA): Applied Behaviour Analysis (ABA) is the science of human behaviour. It is the process of applying interventions in a systematic way in order to improve socially significant behaviors and to demonstrate that the interventions used led to improvements in those targeted behaviours. ABA uses the principles of learning theory. For example, techniques such as reinforcement are used to increase behaviours, generalize learned behaviours or reduce undesirable behaviours. A core feature of ABA is that programs and interventions focus on meaningful outcomes for the learner. Many different teaching strategies are used in interventions based in ABA theory such as “shaping; chaining; discrete trial training; etc.” – for more information on ABA-based interventions, please refer to http://www.centerforautism.com/ aba-therapy.aspx When choosing an intervention for your child, ask yourself, “what are the priorities and areas of concern for my child?” Then ask your potential service provider(s): • Is there research that shows this intervention is effective, if so what kind of research is it? • How will this intervention help my child function better? • How will my child’s progress be evaluated? • What will be the measures and how often? • How will the program be adjusted according to my child’s progress? Adapted from Jack, M., Ady, J. A Guide to Choosing Interventions for Children with Autism Spectrum Disorders . Alberta Centre For Child, Family & Community Research, 2006. WE B LI N K S AIS BC: http://autisminfo.gov.bc.ca/ Autism Support Network: http://autismsupportbc.ca/ Positive Behaviour Support (PBS): Positive Behavior Support (PBS) is a set of research-based strategies used to increase quality of life and decrease problem behavior by teaching new skills and making changes in a person’s environment. PBS can be used by a wide range of trained service providers. It combines information from social, behavioural, and biomedical science and applies this information to reduce behavioural challenges and improve quality of life. In