regarding identification, interventions and the provision of special education services for students with autism. It is not intended to be a comprehensive resource on all aspects of autism, since every child with autism is different and therefore ways of supporting their classroom experience will be highly individualized. Most people agree that referring to “autism” as opposed to “autism spectrum disorder/condition” is preferable. In this handbook, the authors have referred to “autism spectrum disorder” and ASD only when necessary to describe diagnostic criteria. For the purpose of this handbook, the term “autism” is used as defined in the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) 2004. The number of children identified with autism has increased significantly over recent years. The increasing prevalence of students identified with autism in public schools has emphasized a need for a handbook to assist school staff with appropriately identifying and supporting students with autism. At the time of this publication, research on the prevalence of autism is ongoing, and the rates may change over time. Updated information can be found at the CDC the Data & Statistics website . This handbook orients the reader to important topics related to educating children with autism and provides current information about autism. Information is intended for use by educators, families, students, and community providers. This handbook is a guide and is not intended to replace any existing regulation or policy. The goal of this handbook is to improve educational outcomes for students with autism by providing: • Background and current information on the characteristics of autism, including descriptions of the range of behaviors a child with autism might display in the classroom. • Suggestions on how to collaborate as a team to support children with autism. • Guidance for school teams to identify children with autism. • Best practices/evidence-based practices, and reliable resources concerning educational intervention strategies for children with autism. • Information on smooth secondary transitions for children and youth with autism. Resources relevant to each section of this handbook are compiled in the “Resources” section included in Appendix A. Person-First and Identity-First Language There are differences in opinion about how to talk about autism: person-first language or identity-first language. 5 • Person-First Language , such as “a person with autism,” takes the view of talking about the person before the disability and aims to communicate that a person is more than their disability. • Identity-First Language , such as “autistic person,” aims to recognize that a disability is an important part of the person, is not inherently negative, and cannot be separated from their experience. Many studies show that a majority of autistic self-advocates, as well as leading advocacy organizations including the Autistic Self-Advocacy Network, and Association of University Centers on Disabilities prefer identity-first language to person-first (Lei, Jones & Brosnan, 2021). While there is not a clear consensus on person-first versus identity-first language, it is important to closely consider the language used in different settings with the aim to reduce stigma. Educators should take time to discuss