and developmental studies (continued) Outcome Strength of Evidence Grade Study Design Quality and Number of Studies (N Total Participants) Study Limitations Consistency Directness Precision Reporting Bias Finding Symptom severity Low for positive effect RCT: 1 good, 1 fair (332) nRCT: 1 good, 1 fair (74) Prospective cohort: 4 fair, 2 poor (470) Retrospective cohort: 1 fair (142) Medium Inconsistent Direct Imprecise Undetected Mixed impact on symptom severity; SOE is low for a positive effect on symptom severity because 2 good studies showed positive effects but multiple lower quality studies did not. More studies are needed to confirm results. Most control groups were also receiving treatment and also showed improvement, making it difficult to tease apart the effect of early intensive intervention specifically vs. any kind of intervention. Evidence emerged that baseline symptom severity predicts response to treatment, although the direction is inconsistent. Language/ commun- ication Moderate for positive effect RCT: 1 good, 2 fair (360) nRCT: 1 good, 3 fair (143) Prospective cohort: 6 fair, 2 poor (616) Medium Consistent Direct Precise Undetected Most studies found a positive effect of treatment on language/communication skills, although the specific domain of improvement (e.g., receptive vs. expressive language) varied across study. Some initial between-group differences disappeared at long-term followup. Some evidence that baseline child factors such as gender and cognitive skills influenced effects of treatment on language outcomes. A limitation is that some studies measured language using direct testing, whereas others only used the Vineland Communication domain. 83 Table 12. Strength of evidence for ABA-based early intensive behavioral and developmental studies (continued) Outcome Strength of Evidence Grade Study Design Quality and Number of Studies (N Total Participants) Study Limitations Consistency Directness Precision Reporting Bias Finding Social skills/social behavior Low for positive effect RCT: 1 good, 1 fair (332) nRCT: 1 fair (34) Prospective cohort: 4 fair, 1 poor (406) Retrospective cohort: 1 fair (142) Medium Inconsistent Direct Imprecise Undetected Many studies found that treatment groups improved more than controls on measures of social skills, although a significant minority did not find any treatment effect. A significant limitation is that social skills were assessed almost exclusively using parent- reported standard scores on the Vineland. ABA-applied behavior analysis; nRCT-nonrandomized controlled trial; RCT-randomized controlled trial Table 13. Strength of the evidence for early intervention-parent training studies Outcome Strength of Evidence Grade Study Design Quality and Number of Studies (N Total Participants) Study Limitations Consistency Directness Precision Reporting Bias Finding IQ/cognitive Low for no effect RCT: 3 fair (148) Prospective cohort: 1 good, 1 fair, 1 poor (142) Medium Inconsistent Direct Imprecise Undetected Most studies of parent-implemented ABA demonstrated no improvements in IQ relative to community-based interventions; in some studies worse outcomes were reported relative to center-based treatment. SOE is low for no effect due to heterogeneity in interventions and outcomes measured. 84 Table 13. Strength of the evidence for early intervention-parent training studies (continued) Outcome Strength of Evidence Grade Study Design Quality and Number of Studies (N Total Participants) Study Limitations Consistency Directness Precision Reporting Bias