reported improved outcomes with more intervention time and others reported no association. Overall, most studies were not adequately designed or controlled to identify true moderators of treatment response. KQ 3. Treatment Phase Changes That Predict Outcomes The reviewed literature offers little information about what specific early changes from baseline measurements of child characteristics might predict long-term outcome and response. KQ 4. Treatment Effects That Predict Long-Term Outcomes Few studies assess end-of-treatment effects that may predict outcomes. Several early intensive behavioral and developmental interventions are associated with changes in outcome measures over the course of very lengthy treatments, but such outcomes usually have not been assessed beyond treatment windows. One family of studies attempted to follow young children receiving early joint attention intervention until they were school aged, but this study failed to include adequate followup of control conditions. It also involved children who were receiving many hours of uncontrolled interventions during the course of study. KQ 5. Generalization of Treatment Effects The majority of the social skills and behavioral intervention studies targeting associated conditions attempted to collect outcomes based on parent, self, teacher, and peer report of targeted symptoms (e.g., anxiety, externalizing behaviors, social skills, peer relations) at home, at school, and in the community. Although such ratings outside of the clinical setting may be suggestive of generalization in that they improve outcomes in the daily context/life of the child, in most cases, these outcomes are parent reported and not confirmed with direct observation. Behavioral intervention studies rarely measured outcomes beyond the intervention period, and we therefore cannot assume that effects were maintained over time. KQ 6. Treatment Components That Drive Outcomes We did not identify any studies meeting our inclusion criteria that addressed this question. KQ 7. Treatment Approaches for Children Under Age 2 at Risk for Diagnosis of ASD In the studies addressing interventions for younger children, children who received behavioral interventions seemed to improve regardless of intervention type (including the comparator interventions, which were also behavioral). None of the fair- or good-quality studies compared treatment groups with a no-treatment control group. Potential modifiers of treatment efficacy include baseline levels of object interest. Most outcome measures of adaptive ES-10 functioning were based on parent report, and the effect of parental perception of treatment efficacy on perception (and report) of child functioning was generally not explored. Discussion Key Findings and Strength of Evidence Since our previous review in 2011, there has been a significant increase in the quantity and quality of studies investigating behavioral interventions. These new studies add to the prior report and strengthen our ability to make conclusions about the effectiveness of behavioral interventions. Of the 45 comparative studies of behavioral interventions (29 RCTs) in the 2011 review, we considered only 2 as good quality. Among the new studies described in this current review, 19 studies are good quality, and 48 of the 65 included studies are RCTs. Evidence from the original report and this update suggests that early behavioral and developmental intervention based on the principles