is the MCFD Social Worker. She/he is responsible for completing all Autism Funding related forms. • The RTP specifies the maximum hourly or daily rate that the AFB may pay for a service and the maximum amount of funds that the AFB may pay to a service provider for one funding period. • The RTP form must be processed and approved by the AFB before a Service Provider is able to invoice for services rendered and obtain payment. • MCFD is committed to processing RTP forms within 30 business days of their receipt. • Once the RTP form has been processed and approved and the service provider is found to meet program eligibility, the service provider will be issued a billing number. • The billing number must be included on each invoice that is submitted to the AFB. • It is recommended that services not be provided until the service provider has received their billing number from the AFB. Services provided before a billing number is provided may not be eligible for payment by the AFB and the parent may be responsible for the amount owing. • It is strongly recommended that families and service providers maintain ongoing communication with regards to services billed and funds remaining for the billing number. • During a funding period, a parent/guardian may modify the approved rates/amounts applicable to a billing number by submitting a Request To Amend Invoice Payment Authorization (RTA) form: https://www2.gov. bc.ca/assets/gov/health/managing-your-health/autism/ request_amend_invoice_payment_authorization.pdf. • A new RTP form must be submitted at the start of a new funding period. Funding periods typically last one year A new billing number is provided for each new funding period, if services are approved. • Service providers should provide parents/guardians with exact duplicates of all invoices submitted to the Autism Funding Branch at the time they are submitted for payment. • For more details please see pages 17-19. Writing a Justification for Equipment and Supplies (JFE) form • Equipment and materials necessary for a child’s intervention must be requested by an eligible professional/specialist using the Justification for Equipment and Supplies (JFE) form available at: https:// www2.gov.bc.ca/assets/gov/health/managing-your- health/autism/justification_equipment_supplies.pdf . • See page 11 for a description of professionals who are eligible to complete a JFE for the Autism Funding: Under Age 6 program • See page 15 for a description of professionals who are eligible to complete a JFE for the Autism Funding: Ages 6-18 program. • By completing and signing a JFE form, professionals are accepting responsibility for the monitoring and evaluation of the child’s intervention through the use of the recommended equipment and supplies. • A JFE is not a guarantee that an item will be eligible for Autism Funding. It is recommended that families wait to purchase items only after the JFE has been approved. The cost of items that are not eligible will not be reimbursed. 37 • The items purchased as per specifications on an approved JFE will remain the sole property of the child and family. • For more details