language skills). 156 In another early intervention study, children who gained more language comprehension had higher adaptive behavior scores pre-treatment. Pre- treatment language comprehension also predicted post-treatment language production. 101 , 102 An RCT evaluating an imitation-based approach to affect social functioning 152 , 153 assessed whether changes in social functioning were tied to changes in participants’ imitation skills. Gains in imitation were associated with the number of spontaneous play acts at baseline; however, changes in imitation were not shown to be associated with gains in social functioning. This finding could be because the study had too few participants (n=27) to detect such an effect. Other Factors One RCT compared the effects of a 6-week joint attention or symbolic play intervention with a control arm in participants receiving 30 hours of early intervention; at the 5 year followup, investigators assessed diagnoses and language skills for 40 of the 58 original participants. 140 , 141 , 148 , 149 Investigators also identified potential predictors of vocabulary and cognitive changes via regression analyses. Potential predictors included child age, sex, maternal education, play levels and types, and joint attention responses. Ability to use spoken language at followup (“passing” the language assessments) was predicted by children’s average play level at baseline (p<.01). Number of functional play types at baseline predicted greater cognitive skills. Younger age at baseline, initiation of joint attention, play level and treatment group assignment (either joint attention or symbolic play) predicted subsequent vocabulary ability (all p<.03); these factors together explained 64 percent of spoken language variability. Importantly, this study is limited in that children were often receiving intensive levels of intervention outside of the intervention setting, making impact of prescribed intervention hard to determine. 73 Parent-Related Factors Four early intervention studies assessed variables related to parents/caregivers. In one RCT incorporating parent training, 72 , 105 parents in the additional treatment group showed increased responsiveness to their children during videotaped interactions, which was correlated with reduced ASD symptom severity (p=.049). No between-group differences were found in adaptive behavior or parenting stress. In another parent training RCT, parents in the professionally led group with low baseline self-efficacy reported higher followup self-efficacy levels than parents in the video arm. 100 In a report 87 also including a population reported in a retrospective cohort 86 , parental stress was not associated with any outcomes. In both the early intensive intervention and eclectic treatment control group in one study, child outcomes on early language skills, mental developmental state, and adaptive behaviors were significantly influenced by self-reported parental stress, children’s ability to respond correctly to prompts, the number and difficulty of treatment targets, and children’s problem behaviors in sessions. Children who were perceived by their parents as more difficult demonstrated less improvementin ASD severity. 101 , 102 Two play/interaction-focused RCTs assessed parent responsiveness and adherence to the treatment approach on treatment effects. One study comparing an 8-week caregiver-delivered joint attention approach with a waitlist control assessed intensity of total hours of intervention (external to the study), investigator-rated