in forming and maintaining relationships (e.g., diminished peer interest, challenges joining in play, difficulties adjusting behavior to social context). ASD features of restricted repetitive patterns of behavior, interests, or activities may include stereotyped motor mannerisms, use of objects, or speech (e.g., simple motor stereotypies, repetitive play, echolalia, and formal or idiosyncratic speech); insistence on sameness, inflexible adherence to routines, or ritualized patterns of behavior (e.g., distress at small changes, rigid patterns of thought and behavior, performance of everyday activities in ritualistic manner); intense preoccupation with specific interests (e.g., strong attachment to objects, circumscribed or perseverative topics of interest); and sensory sensitivities or interests (e.g., hyperreactivity or hyporeactivity to pain and sensory input, sensitivity to noise, visual fascination with objects or movement). 2-4 ASD symptoms cause impairment across many areas of functioning and are present early in life. However, impairments may not be fully evident until environmental demands exceed children’s capacity. They also may be masked by learned compensatory strategies later in life. Many children with ASD may also have intellectual impairment or language impairment, and the disorder may be associated with known medical, genetic, or environmental factors. Treatments for ASD that families pursue include behavioral, educational, medical, allied health, and complementary approaches. Individual goals for treatment vary for different children and may include combinations of therapies. For many individuals, core symptoms of ASD (impairments in communication and social interaction and restricted/repetitive behaviors and interests) may improve with intervention and over time; 5-8 however, deficits typically remain throughout the lifespan. Lifelong management—often using multiple treatment approaches— may be required to maximize functional independence and quality of life. Scope and Key Questions Scope of Review This systematic review updates the behavioral intervention portion of our comprehensive review of therapies for children with ASD published in 2011. 9 ASD intervention categories overlap substantially, and it can be difficult to cleanly identify the category into which an intervention should be placed. Ultimately, we defined behavioral interventions to include early intensive behavioral and developmental interventions, social skills interventions, play/interaction-focused approaches, interventions targeting symptoms commonly associated ES-1 with ASD, and other general psychosocial approaches. This behavioral category of intervention explicitly does not include primarily medical interventions, complementary and alternative interventions, allied health interventions, or educationally focused interventions unless a behavioral intervention representative of the operationalization above was included within the study design. At the time of the 2011 review (available at www.effectivehealthcare.ahrq.gov/ehc/products/106/656/CER26_Autism_Report_04-14- 2011.pdf ), the strength of the evidence was considered low for the effectiveness of early intensive behavioral and developmental interventions. Positive outcomes from an early and intensive behavioral and developmental intervention were noted in cognitive performance, language skills, and adaptive behavior when the intervention was delivered over substantial intervals of time (i.e., 1–2 years). Variability in response to such approaches was tremendous, with subgroups of children who demonstrated a more modest response. The ability to describe and predict these subgroups was limited. Some other behavioral interventions that varied widely in terms of scope, target, and intensity had demonstrated effects, but the lack of consistent