simpler to identify the characteristics of those children who show at most a minimal benefit from a particular treatment, but most existing studies also fail to adequately describe this population. It is possible that meta-analyses of individual patient data may provide additional information for identifying subgroups of responders. Further, our understanding of early indicators of treatment response is extremely limited, such that it is not realistic to implement evidence-based changes in intervention based on assessing children’s responses. This is quite important to parents, providers, and families, as they often want to know not only when a treatment is working, but also when the lack of a robust response should lead them to pursue other treatment options. Similarly, research is lacking on the durability of treatment gains and approaches needed to maintain gains. Currently, the evidence suggests that some children will show dramatic improvement overall, others will display robust improvement in some areas with continued areas of vulnerability in others, and still other children will show more modest responses to treatment. It is also unclear how similar groups of children would respond to differing levels of intervention intensity, approaches, and methods. Research suggests that child characteristics such as baseline cognitive, language, and adaptive skills and ASD symptoms correlate with treatment outcome regardless of intervention. However, these correlational data provide limited information to predict what treatments will work best for individual children. Intensive comprehensive intervention strategies are often, by their very nature, multicomponent, but little data exist on whether specific treatment components drive effectiveness. Also, little is known about mediators of change. Finally, intervention research often fails to collect data on pragmatic factors related to family, culture, available resources, and stressors that are likely critical to understanding treatment response in a “real-world” context. Measuring appropriate outcomes is a primary methodologic concern in the ASD literature. Intervention research has typically measured differing outcomes across studies, which has limited the ability to understand change within and across individual studies. 11 Many studies also used problematic methods to operationalize outcomes, doing so in terms of change on standardized measures that reference normative populations (i.e., IQ measurement, adaptive behavior scores). This may not be an appropriate or adequate method for measuring or predicting early treatment response, changes in quality of life, or long-term functional outcomes. Such measurement, while allowing for comparison with typically developing populations, may miss important information about changes that are relevant within the ASD population specifically. More simply, it is unclear that measures of cognitive ability, language, and ASD diagnostic ES-19 symptoms are adequately sensitive methods for measuring symptom frequency, intensity, and impairment in children with ASD. Research on appropriate methods for capturing meaningful change will be critical to advancing our understanding of behavioral interventions. In addition, although more studies are reporting primary and secondary outcome measures determined a priori, continued improvements in reporting will benefit the field. Given that the treatment process for ASD is typically intensive and requires highly specific and well-trained individuals to deliver with fidelity, questions of feasibility and