and skills), treatment factors (e.g., type, duration, intensity), and systems (e.g., family, community) influence response to intervention could help professionals target treatments to the appropriate children and circumstances. However, as was reported in the 2011 review, few studies were clearly designed or powered to allow for analysis of heterogeneous effects. Primarily studies in this section are those in which potential correlates were identified that may be moderators, but have not been studied as such. These potential moderators should be assessed in properly designed and powered studies for this purpose. Among early intensive ABA-based interventions potential modifiers or moderators, younger age at intake was generally associated with better outcomes for children; however, this finding was not present in some other studies. 123 , 167 , 179-181 Higher cognitive skills and higher adaptive behavior scores at baseline also were often associated with better outcomes across behavioral interventions, but the associations were not consistent. In general, children with lower symptom severity or less severe diagnoses improved more than participants with greater impairments. However, many studies (e.g., those of social skills, CBT) often restricted the range of participants’ impairment at baseline, limiting understanding of intervention impact on broader populations. Studies assessing parental responsiveness to children’s communication typically reported better outcomes in children whose parents were more aligned with the child’s communication versus those who attempted to re-direct or were less synchronized with it. Regarding intervention-related factors, duration of treatment had an inconsistent effect, with some studies reporting improved outcomes with greater intervention time and others reporting no association. Studies have often not been adequately designed or controlled in order to help identify true moderators of treatment. More often post-hoc evaluation of differences across groups has been examined. KQ3. Treatment Phase Changes That Predict Outcomes The reviewed literature offers little information about what specific early changes from baseline measurements of child characteristics might predict long-term outcome and response. Some evidence suggests that the best predictor of long-term outcome is not baseline characteristics at all, but rather the magnitude of change seen over the course of treatment (e.g., cognitive shifts in first years of early intensive treatments). 73 , 85 KQ4. Treatment Effects That Predict Long-Term Outcomes Few studies assess end-of-treatment effects that may predict outcomes. Several early intensive behavioral and developmental intervention paradigms change measures over the course of very lengthy treatments, but such outcomes usually have not been assessed beyond treatment windows. One family of studies 140 , 141 , 148 , 149 attempted to follow young children receiving early joint attention intervention until they were school aged, but this study failed to include adequate followup of control conditions. It also involved children were receiving many hours of uncontrolled interventions during the course of study. 94 KQ5. Generalization of Treatment Effects Few studies included in this review explicitly measured generalization of treatment effects to different conditions or locations. Often, early intensive behavioral and developmental interventions attempted to index change by examining standardized cognitive skills, adaptive behavior, and language measures in addition to metrics of