for payment. Parents can contact the Autism Funding Branch at any time to confirm the amount of funds remaining in their child’s account. Autism Funding Agreements are automatically renewed at the end of a child’s birth month. Parents are responsible for managing employment-related expenses, such as Canada Pension Plan, Employment Insurance and Workers’ Compensation Board premiums, where there is an employer/employee relationship. MCFD cannot make these payments on behalf of parents but can reimburse parents for these expenses. Direct Payment (For Children 12 and Over) Through a Direct Payment Agreement, funding is provided directly to the parent/legal guardian that signed the Direct Payment Agreement (‘agreement signatory’) at the beginning of their child’s funding period. The parent chooses eligible autism intervention services that best suit their child’s needs and the parent is responsible for paying service providers for those services. At the end of each funding period, the parent must account for the use of the child’s autism funding. Required paperwork includes documentation identifying who provided service with clear proof of payment (e.g., invoices, receipts, autism branch approval letters, approved JFE Forms, Accountant Confirmation Form, etc.). The Accountant Confirmation Form must be completed and signed by a professional accountant, which means a Certified General Accountant (CGA), Chartered Accountant (CA), Certified Management Accountant (CMA) or Chartered Professional Accountant (CPA). All documentation submitted to MCFD is subject to audit. If it is found that autism funding was spent on ineligible autism expenses, the parent/legal guardian who signed the Direct Payment Agreement will be required to pay back the ineligible amount. Please note that an audit can be done several years after the initial payment has been made. A Direct Payment Agreement can be cancelled if the parent/ legal guardian does not comply with their Agreement obligations. The parent will still be able to access autism funding through the Invoice Payment method, but will no longer be eligible to access further funding through 17 Direct Payment. Eligibility Requirements for Direct Payment • A child diagnosed with ASD must be 12 years or older; • The parent/legal guardian who signs the Direct Payment Agreement (‘agreement signatory’) must have successfully managed Invoice Payment for a minimum of two full years (i.e., 24 months); • The agreement signatory must have complied with all of his or her obligations under any previous Autism Funding Agreements with MCFD; • The parent/legal guardian must notify the Autism Funding Branch at least 60 days prior to the end of their current funding period that they wish to switch to Direct Payment; and, • The parent/legal guardian must complete their child’s existing funding period under Invoice Payment before establishing a new funding period under Direct Payment. • Please refer to “Appendix 5: Steps to Access Funding Through Direct Payment” for more information. Eligible Siblings Ages 6-12 • In order to simplify the payment process for families with more than one child with ASD, agreement signatories will have a choice to have younger siblings who are between the ages of 6-12 also access