Strategies to Increase Effectiveness of Instruction and Student Motivation • Be sure the student is paying attention when instructions are given. Students with autism often have difficulty directing their attention when needed, such as lacking attention to others, paying attention to only one component of a task (i.e., selective attention), or not responding to their name when called. • Give instructions in close proximity to the student . It is easier to gain the student’s attention when positioned near the student. This makes it easier to use other strategies to secure attention. 50 • Provide clear instructions and expectations. Use plain language when providing instructions. This means only using the information needed for the student to perform the task. Expectations can be provided both verbally and visually so the student can refer to the visual if needed. • Intersperse easy and difficult tasks. Including recently mastered tasks in addition to skills the student is acquiring ensures that the student has frequent access to reinforcement and builds positive learning momentum. • Provide opportunity for student choice. Choice-making is a specific strategy that has been shown to increase student motivation, attention, and cooperation when learning new skills. Choices can be offered to the student related to choosing the materials, location, order of instruction and/or topic. Incorporating choice making systematically across instruction often results in greater student engagement and self-determination. • Incorporate preferred materials and interests into the instruction. Students with autism often have strong interests in topics, materials, videos, etc. Incorporating student interest is a strategy that is effective in increasing motivation and engagement and willingness to participate in learning. For example, if you are teaching numeracy skills you may incorporate manipulatives such as trains or blocks that are of specific interest to the student. These can be used for one-one correspondence, counting or addition and subtraction. Flash cards with numbers, favorite videos, or songs that incorporate numeracy skills could be used. This can also include sensory preferences such as noise level, physical proximity to others, and access to sensory input when indicated. • Use Natural, Less Restrictive Procedures if Learning is Equal. Common ways instructional procedures are categorized are by how intrusive or natural the procedure being used is perceived by the student and others. Intrusive vs. Natural Instruction Intrusiveness usually refers to how much a specific procedure impedes a student’s freedom, including physical movements. Natural refers to how the consequence being delivered after a student response is directly related to the behavior being taught (i.e., direct reinforcement). In other words, is the consequence following a behavior the consequence that would naturally occur in the environment? A good example of a natural consequence is the use of food. In the instance that the behavior being taught is communicating wants or needs and the student has asked for a favorite food, then the natural consequence is receiving the favorite food (i.e., natural reinforcer). It is preferable to use the natural reinforcer if learning is the same. Unfortunately, the natural consequence or reinforcer