vs. specific treatment modalities. Some evidence emerged that baseline age, autism severity, language, and cognitive skills interacted with specific treatment types to predict differential outcomes. Setting Studies took place in home, clinic, and school settings in the United States, Canada, Israel, China, Sweden, Italy, Norway, the Netherlands, Australia, Thailand, and the United Kingdom. Participants were assigned to treatment groups in a variety of ways including random assignment, parental preference, educational system and governmental decisions, geographical location, and availability of services. G-1 Table G-2. Applicability of social skills studies Domain Description of applicability of evidence Population Studies typically included school-aged children (i.e. children from 4-13), typically male, diagnosed with high-functioning autism, with baseline cognitive scores typically within the average range, even though some studies also included children and classified them as high-functioning as long as they met an IQ score cutoff of 70 or above. The populations studied generally only reflect the IQ and language characteristics of school-aged children with ASD without concomitant cognitive and/or language deficits in the community. Intervention Social skills interventions varied widely in terms of scope and intensity. Examples included a few studies that replicated interventions using the manualized Skillstreaming model; a few studies that incorporated peer-mediated and/or group-based approaches; and interventions that focused on emotion identification and theory of mind training. One study examined long-term follow-up of the Children’s Friendship Training program and another study was a Japanese pilot study of the Treatment and Education of Autistic and Related Communication Handicapped Children (TEACCH) model. The studies also varied in intensity, with the majority of the studies consisting of 1-2 hour sessions/week lasting for approximately 4-5 weeks; however, some of the group-based approaches lasted for 15-16 weeks. Comparators Comparators were varied but the majority of studies included a wait-list control group. Other comparative interventions included revised or updated versions of previously utilized interventions or variations of group makeup (i.e. peer group only versus peer group with a sibling; child-directed group interaction or peer-directed group interaction). Outcomes Studies varied widely in their assessment of outcome measures. Several studies measured learning of new skills specific to the treatment (i.e. Skillstreaming Knowledge Assessment). Several studies utilized parent-report of social skills, including scores on the Social Responsiveness Scale, the Social Skills Rating System, and the BASC-2. Other studies utilized behavioral ratings by staff and/or teachers on the child’s social interactions and social network salience. Finally, some studies examined emotion identification or theory of mind measures. All of the studies were short-term in nature, with follow-up occurring approximately 2-3 months post-intervention, if follow-up was done at all. The results indicated that most studies reported short-term gains in social skills and emotion recognition as reported by parents or within study measures. However, maintenance and generalization of these skills beyond the treatment context had variable results. Setting Studies were conducted in the US, Australia, Japan, and Europe (The Netherlands) in primarily clinic settings, even though a few group-based interventions were utilized in the school/community setting, and the emotion-identification interventions utilizing media were implemented in