general, PBS uses proactive, educative, and reinforcement-based interventions and supports across settings to improve behavior so that it is meaningful, durable, and sustainable in natural settings. For more information, please refer to http://www.apbs.org/ . Developmental Social Pragmatic (DSP) Approaches are based on the principles of typical development and how typical children learn to interact. They focus on initiation and spontaneity in communication and following the child’s focus of attention and motivations. The goal is to improve the child’s ability to form positive, meaningful relationships with other people. • DSP approaches emphasize teaching functional skills in a sequence that is developmentally appropriate. They are child directed whereby the adult responds to the child’s interests; taught in the context of natural social routines; and “intensity” is defined by the amount of “active involvement” on the child’s part, not by the number of hours of treatment per week. • Examples of “name-brand” DSP approaches include Floortime/ Developmental Individual-difference Relationship-based (DIR); Relationship Development Intervention (RDI); Social, Communication, Emotional Regulation and Transactional Support (SCERTS); Hanen: More Than Words; etc. Comprehensive Approaches also known as ‘Naturalistic Developmental Behavioural Interventions’ (NDBIs) combine the best of ABA and DSP intervention models. These types of treatments utilize behaviour-based teaching rooted in Applied Behaviour Analysis for skill acquisition and utilize DSP techniques to facilitate generalization and spontaneity of those skills. NDBIs emphasize developmentally appropriate skills and involve shared control between the adult and child. • Examples of “name-brand” NDBIs Include: the Early Start Denver model (ESDM); Pivotal Response Training (PRT); Natural Language Teaching; TEACCH; etc. 24 A Parent’s Handbook: Your Guide to Autism Programs What is a Behaviour Plan of Intervention (BPI)? A behaviour plan of intervention (BPI) is an individualized program that identifies goals designed for a specific child that focuses on identifying areas where the child needs intervention. It is most often developed and written by a behaviour analyst/consultant in collaboration with the family, and should include input from other professionals who are members of the child’s team (e.g., speech-language pathologist, occupational therapist). It is recommended that all professionals involved with your child provide a Plan of Intervention that outlines specific goals; strategies for attaining those goals; and a process to review and update the goals on a regular basis. A BPI identifies effective and suitable interventions for a specific child. The BPI also establishes a baseline that states “where the child is now” and looks towards “where we want to go.” It is also a roadmap that outlines how intervention will proceed and provides a platform to regularly review your child’s plan and to measure his or her progress. It is important that parents are part of the planning and review processes and that intervention is always guided by a plan that is regularly reviewed. A Behaviour Plan of Intervention (BPI) should: • Be completed within the framework of best practices • Be based on a developmental curriculum that includes: identifying global goals for all areas of development (academic, communication, social skills/play skills, motor/ sensory functioning and