15.2±1.4 hours/week) as well as parent-delivered treatment (mean 16.3±6.2 hours/week). The comparison group of 21 children (mean age: 23.1±3.9 months, mean IQ: 59.4±8.6) received individual (mean 9.1 hours/week) and group (mean 9.3 hours/week) therapies, including speech-language therapy, occupational therapy, and developmental preschool enrollment. The ESDM intervention targets social communication and engagement as well as general child development. After one year of treatment, The ESDM group showed significantly greater improvement in IQ but not adaptive behavior. After two years of treatment, the ESDM group continued to show significantly more IQ improvement as well as receptive and expressive language. Both groups improved in all domains of adaptive behavior but socialization, with greater improvements in the ESDM group. Neither group showed significant differences in Autism Diagnostic Observation Schedule (ADOS) severity scores or repetitive behavior, although the ESDM group demonstrated a diagnostic shift toward a milder diagnosis (PDD-NOS) at followup. Electroencephalography (EEG) measures of engagement and cognitive processing for children in the ESDM group with usable data were comparable to typically developing children. A good quality non-randomized trial from Europe 91 compared children (mean age=62.52±16.96 months) with ASD and co-occurring intellectual disability receiving school- based ABA therapy (n=20) to a matched control group of children receiving care-as-usual (e.g., enrollment in TEACCH classrooms, PECS; n=20). The intervention group received one-to-one treatment (mean=4.98 hours, SD=1.45; range: 1.32-7.11) from master’s level interventionists. Eleven participants received 2 years of treatment and 9 participants received only one year due to funding loss and school noncompliance. Independent ratings indicated high treatment fidelity (90.3%). Monthly meetings between therapists and parents and teachers provided them with strategies on skill instruction and maintenance. Cognitive, adaptive, and language skills, and ASD symptoms, were assessed at 12- and 24- months after starting treatment. Both the treatment and control groups showed significant improvement from baseline to 12-month and from 12-month to 24-month followups in developmental age, adaptive skills, and receptive language, with the treatment group showing significantly more improvement than the control (p values<.04, effect sizes ranging from 1.09- 2.61). The treatment group showed significant improvements in IQ (p<.001, effect size=.40) between baseline and the 12-month assessment but not the 24-month assessment, whereas the control group did not show significant IQ gains at either time point. Fifty-five percent of treatment group participants showed reduced levels of intellectual disability post-treatment versus 5 percent in the control group. The treatment group (but not the control group) also had 21 reduced ASD symptoms as measured by the CARS and ADOS (p values<.01, effect sizes 1.50- 1.51). Neither group significantly improved in expressive language. Multiple baseline child factors were significantly correlated with progress over time, including developmental age, hours of treatment per week, IQ, adaptive and play skills, and receptive language. A fair quality Canadian retrospective cohort study 86-90 , 110 matched children receiving a large- scale, publicly funded, community-based early intensive intervention program that incorporated ABA, discrete trial training, and naturalistic approaches (n=61, mean age=42.93±11.53 months) to waitlisted children receiving care-as-usual (n=61, mean age=42.79±10.51 months). The intervention group received