treatment (mean 25.81±3.44 hours/week) conducted by trained instructor therapists in specialized centers, preschools, and the home environment. The control group received a mean of 17.9±12.3 hours/week of school-based services and <10 hours/week of behavioral intervention conducted by community-based interventionists in community settings. The approaches included low-intensity ABA, speech and occupational therapy, and behavioral consultation. Children in the treatment arm were enrolled in treatment longer (mean=27.84±8.11 months) than children in the waitlist group (mean=17.01±2.81months), and analyses controlled for this difference. ASD severity improved for the treatment group compared with control, as did Vineland composite standard and ratio scores and IQ estimates (p values≤.033, effect sizes ranging from 0.53 to 0.83). Although treatment group participants had cognitive scores an average of 19 points higher than controls at followup, this should be interpreted with caution due to a lack of baseline cognitive data. Outcomes were related to age at enrollment, treatment duration, and higher baseline adaptive scores, with duration becoming nonsignificant after accounting for group membership (correlation of duration, group=.57, p<.01). A significant interaction emerged between age at enrollment and group membership, with younger starting age influencing outcomes for the treatment group but not control. Analyses including participants in the cohort study and additional participants found that younger age at intake, higher initial developmental levels 90 and treatment intensity 88 , 90 were related to treatment outcomes. Additional analyses of some children in these earlier Canadian studies (overlap not clear) assessed the effects of baseline age and IQ on cognitive and adaptive outcomes in 207 children, and, in a separate analysis of matched older and younger children, effects of baseline age on the same outcomes. 110 In the initial retrospective analysis of 207 children, participant ages at intake ranged from 2 to 14.5 years, IQ from 10 to 104, and mental age from 3 months to roughly 7.5 years. Higher baseline IQ and younger age were significantly associated with greater cognitive rate of change (pre-post change in mental age/time in intervention) and with higher IQ at followup (all p<.001), but change in IQ was not significantly associated with higher initial IQ. Higher baseline IQ was also associated with higher adaptive behavior scores at followup (p<.001), but age was not a significant predictor. Longer duration of intervention was associated with slower rate of IQ and adaptive behavior development (p values ≤.01); however, as this analysis was not prospective, the children who received more intervention could have been making slower progress. In the analysis of older (n=60, age 6-13.58 years at baseline) and younger (n=60, age 2.08-5.92 at baseline) children matched on developmental trajectory (i.e., number of intervention hours, baseline IQ and adaptive behavior), younger children had significantly better followup IQ outcomes compared with the older group. Younger children gained an average of roughly 17 IQ points (effect size=0.80) while older children gained an average of 2 points. Cognitive rate improved significantly for younger (effect size=3.19) but not 22 older children. Both groups improved over time in adaptive behavior, but differences between groups were not