with students and families their preferred terminology and respect those preferences as an important part of creating an inclusive educational environment. As this handbook is written with educators and educational classifications in mind, the terminology “student with autism” will be used to be consistent with the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA). However, since the Transition to Adulthood section encourages self-advocacy and self-determination, the term “autistic student” will be used. 6 ABOUT AUTISM Autism Overview According to the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) Sec.300.8 (c)(1)(i), “Autism means a developmental disability significantly affecting verbal and nonverbal communication and social interaction, generally evident before age three that adversely affects a child’s educational performance. Other characteristics often associated with autism are engagement in repetitive activities and stereotyped movements, resistance to environmental change or change in daily routines, and unusual responses to sensory experiences. (ii) Autism does not apply if a child’s educational performance is adversely affected primarily because the child has an emotional disturbance. (iii) A child who manifests the characteristics of autism after age three could be identified as having autism if the criteria in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section are satisfied. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. § 1401(3), (30).” Autism is a complex neurological disorder that impacts several different areas of development, including social interaction, nonverbal and verbal communication, behavior, and interests. Autism is a developmental disorder, which means that symptoms show up early in life, typically before three years of age. In the past, multiple names have been used to describe autism, such as Asperger’s. While Asperger’s is no longer an official diagnosis, some people may still use this term. There is not one single cause of autism, but research demonstrates that a combination of a person’s genes and different aspects of their environment can increase the likelihood of developing autism. Some of these factors include having a sibling with autism, older parents, very low birth weight, and other genetic conditions. There is no evidence that autism is caused by vaccines or anything that caregivers did or did not do during pregnancy or while caring for their child. At the time of this publication, research on the prevalence of autism is ongoing. The rates may change over time and some population groups may be underrepresented. More detailed and updated information can be found at the CDC Data & Statistics website . Research suggests autism is around four times more common in males than females. However, there is also growing evidence that, due to differences in autism symptom profiles in females, autism is underdiagnosed in this population (Ratto et al., 2018). More information on how autism can present differently in females is provided later in this section. There is a wide range of cognitive ability, or thinking and reasoning skills, among children with autism. Some children with autism have average or even gifted cognitive skills. Others have delays across all or multiple areas of development. 7 Children with autism also have a high prevalence of co-occurring medical and mental health conditions (Neumeyer