autism funding through Direct Payment. • Conversion of any younger siblings onto Direct Payment must occur at the renewal of that child’s funding period. • Siblings under the age of 6 are not eligible for Direct Payment. 18 A Parent’s Handbook: Your Guide to Autism Programs Autism Funding Programs and Parent Responsibilities The autism funding programs offer flexibility and choice to parents. It is important to know the responsibilities associated with these programs. Review the parental obligations listed in your Invoice Payment Agreement or Direct Payment Agreement and request clarification from the Autism Funding Branch if needed. Parents’ responsibilities include: • Using the funds for eligible autism intervention expenses and for no other purpose, in accordance with the terms of the funding agreement and current program policies • Hiring and monitoring service providers • Ensuring all service providers are at least 19 years old and have a clear and current criminal record check • Determining whether an employer/employee relationship exists between the parent and service providers • Meeting employer/employee obligations, including complying with relevant employment standards and paying Canada Pension Plan, Employment Insurance and Workers’ Compensation Board – WorksafeBC premiums and other employer costs as required • If the child is under age six:, selecting professional service providers from the Registry of Autism Service Providers • Notifying the Autism Funding Branch within 30 days of any changes in address, child’s care or custody, or any change in circumstances that may eliminate or reduce the need for funding • Submitting a Request to Pay (RTP) Service Providers/ Suppliers form to the Autism Funding Branch for each service provider, every funding period. The RTP must be submitted every funding period and must indicate the maximum amount that a service provider can invoice during that period. (Please note that services are not eligible for reimbursement; only authorized travel, training and equipment purchase may be reimbursed) • Invoices must be submitted to the Autism Funding Branch within 6 months of the purchase of the service or equipment. (Please note that the date in which the service occurred or the equipment was purchased determines the funding period from which the payment is processed) • Additional responsibilities as noted in the Invoice Payment Agreement or the Direct Payment Agreement WE B LI N K S Resources of assistance in determining obligations as an employer and tax information: Canada Revenue Agency (information specific to employment obligations) 1 800 959-5525 www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency.html Workers’ Compensation Board - WorkSafeBC 1 888 922-2768 www.worksafebc.com/en/for-employers Employment Standards Branch Ministry of Jobs, Tourism and Skills Training 1 800 663-3316 (or in Prince George, call: 250 612-4100) www.labour.gov.bc.ca/esb/welcome.htm Please note : The Autism Funding Branch is not able to provide advice or answer questions with regards to employer responsibilities or taxation. 19 Foster Parents and Children In Care Children in care are eligible for autism programs. If you think that a child or youth you are caring for may have autism, discuss your concerns with their guardianship worker. To access services for Children in Care