team members. From American Speech-Language-Hearing Association . Interprofessional Practice Case Rubric The interprofessional practice case rubric is a tool that can be used to plan and coordinate collaborative service delivery. From American Speech-Language-Hearing Association . Strategies for Effective Teaming for Students with Autism Spectrum Disorder This brief handout includes tips, resources, and a sample agenda to promote effective teaming. From the University of New Mexico Center for Development and Disability . Evidence-Based Instructional Practices Applied Behavior Analysis for Teachers This book for educators and school professionals provides accessible and up-to-date information on the principles and procedures of applied behavior analysis and provides examples of how to implement them in education settings. Alberto, P., Troutman, A., & Axe, J. (2021). Applied Behavior Analysis for Teachers (10 th edition). Upper Saddle River, NJ Pearson Education. Autism Focused Intervention Resources & Modules (AFIRM) AFIRM modules are designed to help educators and other professionals learn the step-by-step process for planning, using, and monitoring an evidence-based practice with students with autism. Autism Internet Modules (AIM) AIM provides learning modules for specific evidence-based interventions. The user is required a login and then they can access the modules. Modules include content information and video examples. From Ohio Center for Autism and Low Incidence (OCALI) Autism Center . 67 Building Social Skills in Schools This toolkit offers strategies for educators to support social awareness and relationship skills in students with autism. From Vanderbilt Kennedy Center TRIAD . Classroom Pivotal Response Teaching for Children with Autism This practical resource provides teachers with guidance to embed Pivotal Response Teaching into existing classroom curriculum. This approach has been shown to increase student motivation, participation, learning opportunities, and skill mastery. Stahmer, A.C., Suhrheinrich, J., Reed, S., Schreibman, L. & Bolduc, C. (2011) . Classroom Pivotal Response Teaching. New York, NY Guildford Press. Ethical Applied Behavior Analysis Models for Individuals Impacted by Autism This book provides teachers, parents, and behavior analysts with a comprehensive analysis of evidence-based, behavior analytic programs for the therapeutic treatment of persons with autism, from infancy through adulthood. Peterson, S., Eldridge, R., Williams, B.F., Williams, R.L. (2025) . Ethical Applied Behavior Analysis Models for Individuals Impacted by Autism. New York, Routledge. National Autism Center at the May Institute The National Autism Center provides a variety of resources for educators and families. It includes a review of evidence-based interventions called the National Standards Project last updated in 2015. National Professional Development Center on Autism Spectrum Disorder The National Professional Development Center has created a variety of resources that include information on evidence-based practices, secondary education and autism, coaching resources, and an assessment tool called the Autism Program Environmental Rating Scale. No-Tech and Low-Tech AAC for Children with Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASD): A Guide for Parents This guide provides an overview of augmentative and alternative methods to promote communication in children with delays in speech and language development. From Vanderbilt Kennedy Center TRIAD . Peer-based Intervention and Autism Spectrum Disorders: Tips and Resources for Teachers This tip sheet provides information about