systematic use of behavioral principles. The field of ABA has made significant contributions to improving the lives of those with disabilities, and the methods of behavior change that have emerged from the field of ABA have been used successfully for the education of children with autism (Alberto & Troutman, 2012; Cooper, Heron, & Howard 2020). While ABA instructional methods vary, all adhere to the idea that behavior is the result of the environment and the consequence that follows the behavior. The environment and consequence determine if the behavior happens again, how frequently it happens, and under what circumstances. Learning characteristics associated with autism, such as difficulties attending to critical stimuli in the environment, difficulties generalizing new skills, and communication challenges contribute to the need for careful instructional planning. For students with autism, systematic and planned instruction is critical to ensure student progress. In education, the ABC framework can be applied to teaching new skills or reducing challenging behavior. Note: Later in this section the ABC framework will also be used to discuss strategies for reducing challenging behavior. The ABC framework is useful for the systematic planning and implementation of evidence- based instruction. It can be used to teach academic skills and can be used to promote classroom engagement, relationships, and learning. Purposeful arrangement of antecedents and consequences will ensure consistent teaching by all adults working with the student and will make it easier to collect data on student performance. This model helps to plan instruction by identifying what task or skill is to be taught (behavior) and how it will be taught. The “how” takes into consideration what is going to happen before (antecedent) and what happens after (consequence) the student responds. Systematic and 42 planned instruction ensures all adults working with the student will provide the same instruction and respond to the student’s behavior in the same way. The ABC model has three main components: antecedents, behavior, and consequences. • Antecedents are events or experiences that happen before a behavior. Both the “setting” and the “instructional cue” can be antecedent events. This is important to consider because if the student is not making progress, the setting (what is happening in the environment) and the teacher’s instruction can influence student responding in positive ways (student is learning) or negative ways (student learning is stalled). • Behavior is a physical or verbal response. The student response in the ABC model is the target behavior that has been identified before instruction begins. There are several ways a student may respond: - The desired response (this is the target), - A prompted response, - An approximation to the desired response (e.g., providing assistance before the student responds will ensure they access reinforcement and helps keep the student motivated), - An undesired response (i.e., an incorrect or inappropriate response), or - No response, which is often associated with inattention or motivation and can be addressed with specific strategies. • Consequences are aspects of the environment that increase, decrease, or maintain how frequently or how