information. 30 A Parent’s Handbook: Your Guide to Autism Programs Appendix 4: Autism Funding – Summary of Ineligible Expenses Please note: Some interventions and equipment recommended by a professional/specialist are ineligible expenses. The following are ineligible expenses: • Home repairs, renovations, swimming pools, hot tubs, trampolines, playground equipment • Household items, including appliances • General recreation and sports enrolment fees • Sports/fitness equipment • Televisions • Vitamins, medical supplies, orthotics • Clothing • Food (however, small reinforcers for therapy may be eligible) • Any items to be used only in school settings • Monthly smart phone bills and/or data plans The following are some examples of services that are ineligible: • Child care • Respite • General recreation lessons • Medical services • Psychoeducational reports • Services provided out of province, and associated travel Not all ineligible expenses are listed. It is recommended that families contact the Autism Funding Branch at 1 877 777-3530 for more information before purchasing items. 31 Appendix 5: Steps to Access Funding Through Direct Payment 1. Sixty days prior to the end of the child’s current funding period, the parent or legal guardian (or the ‘agreement signatory’) must contact the Autism Funding Branch (AFB) by phone, toll-free at 1-877-777-3530, to inform them that they wish to switch from Invoice Payment to Direct Payment. 2. The AFB reviews the request and notifies the agreement signatory whether they are eligible to access funding through the Direct Payment method. 3. The AFB mails an introduction letter, Direct Deposit Application Form and a Direct Payment Agreement to the eligible agreement signatory. 4. Upon receipt, the eligible agreement signatory must sign the Direct Payment Agreement and return it to the AFB at least 30 days prior to the commencement of their child’s new funding period. 5. It is required that payments are made to agreement signatories by direct deposit. Direct deposit account information should be provided to the AFB when the Direct Payment Agreement is returned. Direct Deposit Application Forms are available at: www.sbr.gov.bc.ca/ documents_library/forms/0312FILL.pdf. 6. Once the AFB has received the signed Direct Payment Agreement, it is processed for approval. Once approved, $6,000 is paid to the agreement signatory at the start of the first funding period. The money must be held in a separate bank account for the child into which only the Direct Payment autism funds can be deposited and out of which only eligible autism expenses can be withdrawn. 7. The agreement signatory will be responsible for acquiring eligible autism intervention services, travel, training, equipment and supplies and will be responsible for paying the professionals, service providers and/or vendors directly. 8. To continue to receive Direct Payment funding in subsequent years, the agreement signatory must submit required paperwork consisting of a completed and signed Accountant Confirmation Form and supporting documentation (i.e., detailed original invoices, receipts, a bank statement showing the balance in the autism funding account, Autism Funding Branch approval letters, etc.) within 60 days of the end of a Direct Payment funding period. This documentation