and professionals learn more about the early signs of ASD. It is recommended that users of the video glossary read the introduction and how to use sections before they login. http://www.firstsigns.org/asd_video_glossary/asdvg_ about.htm A screening tool called the M-CHAT-R/F (Modified Checklist for Autism in Toddlers, Revised with Follow-up) can also help you determine if a professional should evaluate your child. This simple online autism screen, available at https://m-chat.org/ , takes only a few minutes. If the answers suggest your child is at risk for autism, please consult with your child’s doctor. Likewise, if you have any other concerns about your child’s development, don’t wait. Speak to your doctor now about screening your child. If your child shows two or more of these signs, please ask your paediatric healthcare provider for a referral for an evaluation. WE B LI N K S Autism Information Services BC (AIS BC): autisminfo.gov.bc.ca ACT – Autism Community Training: www.actcommunity.ca British Columbia Association for Child Development and Intervention: www.bcacdi.org First Signs: www.firstsigns.org Autism Speaks Canada: www.autismspeaks.ca Children and Youth with Support Needs Ministry of Children and Family Development: https://www2.gov.bc.ca/gov/content/health/ managing-your-health/child-behaviour-development/ support-needs * First Signs, Inc. is a non-profit organization dedicated to educating parents and paediatric professionals about the early warning signs of autism and other developmental disorders. ** Autism Speaks is a non-profit autism science and advocacy organization, dedicated to funding research into the causes, prevention, treatments and a cure for autism; increasing awareness of autism spectrum disorders; and advocating for the needs of individuals with autism and their families. Review Early Indicators of Autism Spectrum Disorder on page 3 Make an appointment to discuss your concerns with your child’s doctor Doctor does not make a referral for assessment Child does not receive diagnosis of ASD Continue to monitor your child’s development. If concerns continue, let your child’s doctor know. Your local Child Development Centre is another source of information and support. Doctor makes a referral to British Columbia Autism Assessment Network (BCAAN) Child receives a diagnosis of ASD Contact your local MCFD office to apply for Autism Programs Assessment 4 A Parent’s Handbook: Your Guide to Autism Programs What to Do if You Think Your Child May Have Autism WE B LI N K S For more information you may wish to contact BCAAN: www.phsa.ca/HealthProfessionals/Autism/Autism- Assessment.htm Autism Information Services BC (AIS BC): autisminfo.gov.bc.ca Local MCFD Office: https://www2.gov.bc.ca/gov/content/family-social- supports/data-monitoring-quality-assurance/ find-services-for-children-teens-families ACT-Autism Community Training: www.actcommunity.ca/ 5 What Causes Autism Spectrum Disorder? The causes of autism are still largely unknown. We do know that it is not caused by parents or the way a child is raised, and there is likely no single cause. Research is underway to explore possible causes including genetic and environmental factors. Is There a Cure? There is no cure for ASD. There are, however, highly effective treatment and intervention methods available that can help individuals and their families address the characteristics of this disorder. Early interventions based on best practices are intended to help children with ASD develop skills, learn to communicate effectively, share