to promote student inclusion in social and academic contexts. They can facilitate delivery of evidence-based interventions in roles where they are well-prepared and supported. The use of paraprofessional staff does not substitute for the role of the certified teaching team. For additional guidance on the use of paraprofessionals, please refer to the OSDE-SES Policies and Procedures . • School Psychologists can provide expertise in typical versus atypical child development, evidence-based assessment (e.g., standardized autism instruments, functional behavior assessments), intervention strategies (e.g., behavior intervention plans, multi-tiered systems of support), and consult and collaborate with teachers, families, and other professionals to improve support. • Speech Language Pathologists can provide essential knowledge of typical versus atypical communication and language development and can assess a student’s functioning (e.g., receptive and expressive language, social pragmatic language) and provide services. They may have expertise in areas like augmentative and alternative communication (AAC) devices, feeding and swallowing, and using visual supports to increase communication and reduce challenging behavior. 14 • Occupational Therapists can assess a student’s adaptive skills and implement services and supports to increase their participation in school routines and activities, including coping with sensory issues, participating in social activities, or managing transitions. • Physical Therapists can assess and address a student’s physical skills to increase their participation in school routines and activities. They can facilitate a student’s progress toward independence by identifying and addressing barriers to safely navigating the school environment. • District and Building-Level Administrators can guide team decision-making to ensure a student’s safety and rights to a free and appropriate public education are prioritized. Administrators can allocate resources to autism-related training and professional development for school personnel and student materials (e.g., assistive technology). • School Counselors and Social Workers can facilitate home-school communication, increase access to community resources, and may implement direct services to support social skills and emotion regulation. • Specialists (e.g., behavior, vision, hearing, autism) can provide expertise during the evaluation process. They may assist with accommodations and interventions, collect and monitor student progress, and facilitate data-based decision making. • School Support Staff (e.g., bus drivers, office personnel, cafeteria workers, school resource officers) can build connections with students and assist with implementing accommodations and/or behavior intervention plans, including providing opportunities for students to practice new skills in different situations or places. • External Team Members (e.g., licensed mental health providers, board certified behavior analysts, medical doctors, private therapy providers, transition agency representatives, etc.) can provide information about services a student receives outside of school, inform school-based services and goals, and exchange expertise with the school team. Parents/caregivers or school personnel may invite other individuals to join a student’s team, such as child/family advocates, community members (e.g., clergy, tribal elder), or language interpreters. These team members can provide valuable perspectives and support. Importance of Professional Development Ongoing training and professional development activities are recommended to expand team members’ knowledge of autism and evidence-based practices. Shared understanding can facilitate the teaming process. Professional development opportunities can be accessed through the Local Education Agency