Intervention response is likely moderated by both treatment and child factors, but exactly how these moderators function is not entirely clear. Despite multiple studies of early intensive treatments, intervention approaches still vary substantially, which makes it difficult to tease apart what these unique treatment and child factors may be. Sample sizes of studies in the current review are typically small (total Ns ranging from 11-284, median=40), and some studies may be considered pilots for larger studies that may better elucidate questions about interventions intensity and moderators of effects. Further, the long-term impact of these early skill improvements is not yet clear, and many studies did not follow children beyond late preschool or early school years. Studies of high intensity early intervention services also demonstrated improvements in children’s early adaptive behavior skills, but these improvements are more variable than those found for early cognitive and language skills. Treatment effects are not consistently maintained across studies. Many studies measure different adaptive behavior domains (which creates within scale variability) and some evidence suggests that adaptive behavior changes may be contingent upon baseline child characteristics, such as cognitive/language and ASD severity. Evidence for the impact of early intensive intervention on core ASD symptoms is more limited and mixed than its impact on cognitive and adaptive behavior skills. Children’s symptom severity often decreased during treatment, but these improvements did not often differ from those of children in control groups. In fact, almost equal numbers of studies report treatment impact versus null treatment effects. Since our previous review, there have been substantially more studies of well-controlled low intensity interventions that provide parent training in bolstering social communication skills. This growing literature base provides increasing data about the utility of such interventions for younger children with ASD, particularly when targeting social communication and language use. 79 However, although parent training programs reported that parenting behaviors were modified during interactions, data are more limited about improvement in broad developmental skills (such as cognition, adaptive behavior, and ASD symptom severity) beyond language gains for some children. Children receiving low-intensity interventions have not demonstrated the same substantial gains as seen in the early intensive intervention paradigms regarding cognitive and adaptive skills. Strength of the Evidence A growing evidence base suggests that some children receiving early intensive behavioral and developmental interventions (e.g., many hours of intervention a week over the course of 1–2 years) show substantial improvements in cognitive and language skills over time compared with children receiving low-intensity interventions, community controls, and eclectic non-ABA based intervention approaches. With this growing literature, our confidence (strength of evidence) in the effects of ABA-based early intensive approaches on cognitive and language outcomes is moderate, based on the need for additional research that identifies which groups of children benefit the most from specific high intensity approaches. Our strength of evidence in these high intensity interventions to affect adaptive behavior skills, social skills, and core ASD symptom severity is low. At present it is challenging to understand which approaches to high intensity intervention have the