Prevent Challenging Behavior • Support independent communication. Ensure that the student with autism has an effective means to communicate wants, needs and preferences. In addition, ensure that educators and peers offer opportunities for students with autism to communicate these preferences and needs. This can be accomplished by asking students what they want or by asking them to make a choice (e.g., “Would you like to sit with Mary or Trish?”) before an activity begins or a demand is made (O’Neill, et al.,1997) • Use visual support to communicate expectations. Provide information about expectations in a way that is understandable to the student. For students with autism, information presented in a visual format (e.g., pictures, line drawings, written words) can be referred to after the teacher has given instructions or explained behavioral expectations in the classroom. For instance, a list of the steps to complete an assignment provided as pictures might help the student understand what to do in the activity or remember the sequence of steps. • Teach classroom rules explicitly and provide support as needed. A teacher might assume that a student with autism understands classroom rules or expectations, especially if the student is verbal. However, students with autism may not be aware of a classroom rule until it is violated. So, providing rules in a format that is easily understood and accessible and teaching the student what the rule means will ensure student understanding. This might include rules presented in a visual format, rule rehearsals, or teaching examples and non-examples of following the rule. • Provide for a student’s physical or emotional comfort. When a student with autism is either physically or emotionally uncomfortable, they are more likely to take action to become more comfortable. This could manifest itself in protests and/or challenging behavior if unable to communicate their discomfort or inability to take action to change the situation. Teachers should be alert to physical or emotional discomfort such as aversion to certain textures, sound, lighting or fatigue and learn how students might express their needs through their behavior. While it is often not possible to fully understand the physical discomfort of a student with autism unless they are able to articulate the discomfort, an educated “guess” can be made by closely observing and documenting student behavior and how it changes in response to different stimuli in the environment. • Promote active engagement. Students with autism who are actively engaged in activities or interactions that are interesting and positive will be less likely to engage in challenging behavior. Identifying student interests and ensuring those interests are incorporated into some aspect of an activity can prevent the need for challenging behavior. While it may not be possible to always incorporate student interests, planning for times when a student is asked to wait or stay with an activity that may not be engaging by providing support to assist the student will reduce the likelihood 53 of challenging behavior. This could be a visual of what is coming next that is