access to evidence-based intervention services through private insurance. Again the availability and accessibility of resources for referral varies dramatically across communities Limitations of the Review Process We limited this update to comparative studies of behavioral interventions and included only those with at least 10 individuals. Thus, we did not include data from pre-post studies or those with a very small number of children. These would include single-subject design studies that are helpful for understanding focused questions of short-term efficacy in individual children, and that may be useful for explicating mechanisms of action. These studies are less able to contribute to the body of evidence that we sought on population level and generalizable effects. Users of this review may want to take those studies into account as context when applying our findings. 99 We limited our review to English language studies, not finding evidence that we were missing relevant research in other languages. We did not do a quantitative synthesis given the substantial heterogeneity of the literature base, but we recognize that this lack of synthesis may mitigate the ease with which the findings are applied. Therefore we have tried to provide substantial description that will help end users apply the findings. Limitations of the Evidence Base Despite improvements, the existing literature still has significant methodological concerns that in many ways continue to limit the strength of these conclusions. Evidence for the impact of intensive ABA-based interventions on cognitive, language, adaptive skills, and ASD symptoms also highlights important limitations of current treatment modalities. First, even children who demonstrate clinically significant improvements in these areas often continue to display substantial impairment in these same and other areas. Second, not all children receiving intensive ABA-based intervention showed robust improvements in these domains. Thus, although this updated review makes it clearer that early intensive ABA-based intervention improves early impairment related to ASD, it is still challenging to describe the ultimate effect of these improvements in terms of long-term functional and adaptive outcomes on an individual level. Further, although children receiving early intensive developmental and behavioral intervention commonly display substantial improvements, the magnitude of these effects varies across studies and may indicate subgroups showing variable responses to particular interventions. Intervention response is likely moderated by both treatment and child factors. Despite multiple studies of early intensive treatments, intervention approaches still vary substantially, which makes it difficult to tease apart what these unique treatment and child factors may be. Similarly, data on provider type and qualifications are variably reported, and the impact of provider characteristics on treatment outcomes is unclear. Further, researchers have not commonly utilized explicit methodologies or analyses to help elucidate moderation of treatment response across studies. As such, the c urrent evidence is insufficient to adequately identify and target children most likely to benefit from specific interventions. When examining treatment outcomes, many early intervention studies found that children in all groups improved on cognitive, adaptive, and ASD symptom measures regardless of intervention type, although the degree of improvement was often greater in the