Child Development For information on program eligibility, see the WEBLINK . 2 A Parent’s Handbook: Your Guide to Autism Programs What is Autism Spectrum Disorder? Autism Spectrum Disorder is a complex neurobiological condition that impacts brain development and affects a person’s social relationships, communication, interests and behaviour. The symptoms and characteristics present in a wide variety of combinations; and individuals can exhibit any combination of the behaviours in any degree of severity. Studies indicate that ASD affects one in every 68 children. ASD usually appears early in life, often before the age of three, and is four to five times more common in boys than in girls. Individuals with ASD tend to have difficulties communicating. Their communication challenges can range from being non- verbal to responding inappropriately in conversations, to not understanding non-verbal cues, or having difficulty building friendships appropriate to their age. In addition, individuals with ASD may be overly dependent on routines, highly sensitive to changes in their environment, or intensely focused on inappropriate items. The symptoms and characteristics of ASD can present in a wide variety of combinations from mild to severe. Therefore, there is no standard type or typical person with ASD. Parents may hear different terms used to describe children with ASD, such as: Autistic Disorder, Asperger’s Disorder, Pervasive Developmental Disorder-Not Otherwise Specified (PDD-NOS), Childhood Disintegrative Disorder (CDD), autistic-like, autistic tendencies, autism spectrum, high-functioning or low-functioning autism. These terms are not necessarily related to the child’s abilities or needs. It is more important to understand that appropriate education and treatment based on the child’s individual abilities and needs can help children to develop to their full potential. WE B LI N K S Autism Society of Canada: autismcanada.org Autism Speaks Canada: www.autismspeaks.ca/ University of Washington Autism Center: depts.washington.edu/uwautism/ 3 Early Indicators of Autism Spectrum Disorder If you think your child may have Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD), please read through the list of possible signs of ASD. Your child does not need to demonstrate all of the indicated behaviours in order to be referred for an assessment. Please note that these characteristics may also be indicators of other conditions. Possible early signs of ASD (adapted from First Signs* and Autism Speaks**): • Impairment in Social interaction • Lack of appropriate eye gaze • No big smiles or other warm, joyful expressions by six months or thereafter • Lack of sharing interest or enjoyment • Lack of response to name • Impairment in Communication • No back-and-forth sharing of sounds, smiles or other facial expressions by nine months • Lack of showing gestures such as pointing, showing, reaching or waving by 12 months • Lack of coordination of non-verbal communication • No babbling by 12 months • Unusual prosody (little variation in pitch, odd intonation, irregular rhythm, unusual voice quality) • Repetitive Behaviours & Restricted Interests • Repetitive movements with objects • Repetitive movements or posturing of body, arms, hands or fingers First Signs® and the First Words® Project have developed a video glossary to assist families