Therapies for Children With Autism Spectrum Disorder: Behavioral Interventions Update Comparative Effectiveness Review Number 137 Comparative Effectiveness Review Number 137 Therapies for Children With Autism Spectrum Disorder: Behavioral Interventions Update Prepared for: Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality U.S. Department of Health and Human Services 540 Gaither Road Rockville, MD 20850 www.ahrq.gov Contract No. 290-2012-00009-I Prepared by: Vanderbilt Evidence-based Practice Center Nashville, TN Investigators: Amy S. Weitlauf, Ph.D. Melissa L. McPheeters, Ph.D., M.P.H. Brittany Peters, M.D. Nila Sathe, M.A., M.L.I.S. Rebekah Travis, Psy.D. Rachel Aiello, Ph.D. Edwin Williamson, M.D. Jeremy Veenstra-VanderWeele, M.D. Shanthi Krishnaswami, M.B.B.S., M.P.H. Rebecca Jerome, M.L.I.S., M.P.H. Zachary Warren, Ph.D. AHRQ Publication No. 14-EHC036-EF August 2014 This report is based on research conducted by the Vanderbilt Evidence-based Practice Center (EPC) under contract to the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ), Rockville, MD (Contract No. 290-2012-00009-I). The findings and conclusions in this document are those of the authors, who are responsible for its contents; the findings and conclusions do not necessarily represent the views of AHRQ. Therefore, no statement in this report should be construed as an official position of AHRQ or of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The information in this report is intended to help health care decisionmakers—patients and clinicians, health system leaders, and policymakers, among others—make well informed decisions and thereby improve the quality of health care services. This report is not intended to be a substitute for the application of clinical judgment. Anyone who makes decisions concerning the provision of clinical care should consider this report in the same way as any medical reference and in conjunction with all other pertinent information, i.e., in the context of available resources and circumstances presented by individual patients This report may be used, in whole or in part, as the basis for development of clinical practice guidelines and other quality enhancement tools, or as a basis for reimbursement and coverage policies. AHRQ or U.S. Department of Health and Human Services endorsement of such derivative products may not be stated or implied. This report may periodically be assessed for the urgency to update. If an assessment is done, the resulting surveillance report describing the methodology and findings will be found on the Effective Health Care Program Web site at: www.effectivehealthcare.ahrq.gov . Search on the title of the report. This document is in the public domain and may be used and reprinted without special permission. Citation of the source is appreciated. Persons using assistive technology may not be able to fully access information in this report. For assistance contact EffectiveHealthCare@ahrq.hhs.gov. None of the investigators have any affiliations or financial involvement that conflicts with the material presented in this report. Suggested citation: Weitlauf AS, McPheeters ML, Peters B, Sathe N, Travis R, Aiello R, Williamson E, Veenstra-VanderWeele J, Krishnaswami S, Jerome R, Warren Z. Therapies for Children With Autism Spectrum Disorder: Behavioral Interventions Update. Comparative Effectiveness Review No. 137. (Prepared by the Vanderbilt Evidence-based Practice Center under Contract No. 290-2012-00009-I.) AHRQ Publication No. 14-EHC036-EF. Rockville, MD: