the child report did not demonstrate significant differences. This data also did not change significantly at the 3-month followup period. Vineland total daily living and personal daily living raw scores significantly improved for the intervention vs. the control group (p<0.05) with effect sizes of 0.45 for total daily living skills and 0.50 for personal daily living skills. Unnecessary parental involvement and parental involvement in child self-care were significantly reduced in the intervention vs. control groups (p<0.05 and p<0.01, respectively). Treatment effects on the Vineland and parental intrusiveness scales were maintained at 3 months post intervention in the 10 children for whom followup data were available. Among those participants receiving the Social Responsiveness Scale, differences favoring the intervention group were found on three of the five subscales including social communication, social motivation and social awareness (p<0.05). A small, fair quality pilot RCT examined the utility of CBT to improve emotion regulation in a young group of 11 verbal children ages 5 to7 years. 175 Children randomized to the intervention group (n=5) underwent 9 weekly 60 minute sessions of CBT focusing on skill-building, stress management and understanding expression of emotions. The remaining 6 children were randomized to a waitlist control group. This study reported demographic data for all participants but did not present data regarding potential differences between groups. Measures of the child’s capacity for emotion regulation was assessed through his report of number emotion regulation strategies that might be used during the reading of a vignette, parental report on an emotion regulation scale, parent observation and notation of frequency and duration of anger/anxiety episodes, and parent report of their own self-confidence and confidence in their children’s abilities to handle emotions. Measures were collected at baseline and at the end of intervention. At the end of intervention children in the CBT group reported a greater number of emotion regulation strategies in response to the vignettes (4 vs. 1.29 in control group p<0.05, effect size 0.65) and parents had greater confidence in their ability to manage child’s anger and greater confidence in the child’s ability to manage their own anger (p<0.05, effect sizes 0.84 to 0.89). A good quality RCT investigated the effects of a CBT program, Unstuck and On Target compared with a social skills intervention on 57 children ages 7 to 11 with ASD. 183 Children received either intervention weekly for 28 30-40 minute sessions. All children were required to meet ADOS criteria for ASD, have a full scale IQ greater than 70 and mental age greater than 8 years old. Baseline measures were obtained but not reported. The study does not report at what point post intervention measures were obtained. Both groups improved on most measures from baseline to followup. The CBT group improved significantly more on interventionist-rated measures of problem solving, flexibility, and parent and teacher-rated executive function measures when compared with the social skills group (p <0.05 with medium to large effect sizes). In classroom observations, the CBT group demonstrated greater improvement in ability to follow directions, transition