RASP however, it is strongly recommended. • For more detail on the types of services and service providers eligible to invoice the Autism Funding Programs please see pages 11-15. Behaviour Interventionists (BIs) • A Behaviour Interventionist (BI) is a paraprofessional who practices under the close, ongoing supervision of a Behavior Analyst/Consultant, S-LP, OT, or PT. For more details about what role a BI plays on a team, please see page 21. • Behaviour Interventionists (BIs) are eligible to invoice the Autism Funding Branch if they are over the age of 19 and if they have a clear criminal record. • It is the responsibility of the parent/guardian employing the BI to ensure that the BI has an up to date clear criminal record check. • BIs are not required to be on the RASP. • BIs should be supervised by a RASP professional in the Autism Funding: Under Age 6 program and a qualified professional in the Autism Funding: Ages 6-18 program as they do not have the qualifications to work in isolation or independently design and adjust intervention plans. • It is the BI’s supervisor (typically a RASP professional) that is ultimately responsible for the work performed by the BI. Employment Related Expenses • Parents and service providers are responsible for managing employment-related expenses, such as: Canada Pension Plan, Employment Insurance, or Workers’ Compensation Board premiums. MCFD cannot make these payments on behalf of parents but can reimburse parents for these expenses. • Further information regarding tax deductions and employment related expenses can be obtained from the Canada Revenue Agency. Visit https://www.canada.ca/en/ revenue-agency.html • Equipment and/or supplies owned and retained by service providers (e.g., computer programs, laminators, etc.) are not eligible expenses for invoicing in the Autism Funding Programs. 36 A Parent’s Handbook: Your Guide to Autism Programs Invoicing and Payment General Information • MCFD is committed to paying all authorized invoices within 30 business days of their receipt, although most are paid sooner. • Service providers may submit invoices once per month. • Invoices received for future-dated services or for missed appointments are not eligible for payment. • Service providers have up to six months after the date of service to submit an invoice. Invoices submitted after this 6 month time period will not be considered for payment. • It is recommended that service providers sign up for Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT), which would expedite payments to be deposited to a bank account, often within three to five business days of the invoice being processed. Details of the deposit by EFT are emailed to the service provider at the time of each payment. For more information, please visit http://www.gov.bc.ca/autism Before a Service Provider Can Invoice: Request To Pay and Request To Amend Forms • Once a parent/guardian has selected a service provider to work with their child, they notify the MCFD Autism Funding Branch (AFB) by submitting a Request to Pay Service Providers/Suppliers (RTP) form: https://www2. gov.bc.ca/assets/gov/health/managing-your-health/ autism/request_pay_service_providers_suppliers.pdf. For children in the care of MCFD, the legal guardian