million , and about $35 billion yearly for an entire birth cohort of individuals with ASD. 17 1 Etiology and Risk Factors ASD has a strong genetic component, with heritability estimated to be between 40 and 90 percent. 18-20 At least 100 genes are implicated in susceptibility to ASD; 20-22 however, environmental exposures and context also play a role in ASD development and neurogenetic expression. 22 , 23 Identification of specific genetic risk variants has been challenging, and many researchers suggest that multiple pathways are involved, including prenatal and postnatal insult. 21 Current research 24 , 25 suggests that certain metabolic and other maternal conditions (such as diabetes, hypertension, obesity, and influenza infection) during pregnancy may be associated with increased risk of ASD in offspring. Other studies have investigated the role of advanced maternal and paternal age, 26-28 intrapregnancy interval, 29 , 30 pesticide exposure, 31 and exposure to mercury and other heavy metals, 32 among other potential risk factors . In addition to the potential causative genetic and environmental factors described above, being the sibling of another child diagnosed with ASD increases the risk of receiving an ASD diagnosis from approximately 6.7 to 18.7 percent. 33 , 34 This risk varies by gender and increases twofold when two or more older siblings have ASD. Interventions/Treatment The manifestation and severity of symptoms of ASD differs widely, and treatments pursued by families include a range of behavioral, psychosocial, educational, medical, and complementary approaches 35-39 that vary by a child’s age and developmental status. The goals of treatment for ASD are to improve core deficits in social communication and social interactions and minimize the impact of restricted behaviors, with an overarching goal to help children develop greater functional skills and independence. 5 Treatment frequently is complicated by symptoms or comorbidities that may warrant targeted intervention. There is no cure for ASD and no global consensus on which intervention is most effective. 38 , 40 Individual goals for treatment vary for different children and may include combinations of behavioral therapies, educational therapies, medical and related therapies, and allied health therapies; parents may also pursue complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) therapies. Behavioral approaches are the most common treatment approaches for ASD. In 1987, Ivar Lovaas published findings 41 on a subgroup of children who demonstrated improvements in cognitive abilities and educational placement in response to intensive intervention based on the principles of applied behavior analysis (ABA). As a result, ASD was reconceptualized from a largely untreatable disorder 41 to a condition characterized by plasticity and heterogeneity, where there was hope for higher functioning and better outcomes for children receiving appropriate intervention. Subsequent research focused on social communication and behavioral impairments and used both highly structured approaches and natural/developmental approaches that deliver interventions within natural/everyday contexts (Floortime and the Social Communication Emotional Regulation Transactional Support model), as well as some that integrate these different approaches (Early Start Denver Model [ESDM]). These types of early and intensive treatment programs typically target behaviors and development more broadly,