fare for air, bus or train, or mileage at $0.40 per kilometre for a private vehicle. • Hotel expenses to a maximum of $150 per night for one room only are eligible. • Parking may be reimbursed up to a maximum of $15 per day. • Ferry and toll charges are eligible expenses. Equipment and materials related to intervention: Equipment and materials necessary for the child’s intervention must be requested in a Justification for Equipment and Supplies (JFE) Form that is completed by a professional/specialist from the Registry of Autism Service Providers (RASP) or by Early Intervention Therapy (EIT) professionals (i.e., Speech Language Pathologists (S-LP), Occupational Therapists (OT) and/or Physical Therapist (PT)) who are not on the RASP, but are employed through MCFD contracted agencies/organizations/health authorities. • An approved JFE is valid for one year from the date it is signed by the eligible professional, providing the child remains eligible for autism funding and the 20% of the annual funding is not exceeded. The date on the purchase receipt will determine the funding period from which the transaction is processed. • A JFE is not a guarantee that an item will be eligible for autism funding. It is recommended that families wait to purchase items only after the JFE has been approved. The cost of items that are not eligible will not be reimbursed. • The items purchased as per specifications on an approved JFE will remain the sole property of the child and family. Tip for Parents The service provider’s hourly rate of pay should reflect the cost of doing business. WE B LI N K S MCFD forms you may need: https://www2.gov.bc.ca/gov/content/health/managing- your-health/child-behaviour-development/support-needs/ autism-spectrum-disorder/autism-funding Autism Information Services BC (AIS BC): autisminfo.gov.bc.ca SET-BC: www.setbc.org 11 Other avenues of funding for equipment purchases or loans must be explored. Purchases must not duplicate those that would be approved under SET-BC, the At Home Program, other agencies providing equipment or that are typical expenses for a child. Please see the WEBLINK on page 11 for more information on SET-BC. Computers, Touch Screen Tablets or Smart Phones • Requests to purchase a computer, touch screen tablet or smart phone must be made in writing through a Justification For Equipment and Supplies (JFE) Form written by the child’s RASP professional/specialist or EIT professional employed through MCFD contracted agencies/organizations/health authorities. • A child’s autism funding can be used to purchase one laptop OR one desktop computer; OR one touch screen tablet (e.g., an iPad OR an ipod touch or a smart phone) once every three years. Autism Funding: Under Age 6 Ineligible Expenses Some interventions and equipment recommended by a professional/specialist are ineligible expenses. The following are some examples of ineligible items: • Home repairs, renovations, swimming pools, hot tubs, trampolines, playground equipment • Household items, including appliances • General recreation and sports enrolment fees • Sports/fitness equipment • Televisions • Vitamins, medical supplies, orthotics • Clothing • Food (however, small reinforcers for therapy may be eligible) • Any items to be used only in