enjoyable, or an activity they can do while they wait (e.g., computer game, etc.). • Use a first-then contingency. This preventative strategy refers to the use of a high probability behavior (i.e., preferred activities or actions) which can be used to reinforce the occurrence of a low-probability behavior (i.e., a difficult or non-preferred task). This approach provides a contingency for completing a less preferred or difficult task with the opportunity to engage in one that is highly preferred. The most common method for presenting this information to a student is using a “first-then” statement or by providing a visual of “First-math, Then-computer” using pictures. • Provide high rates of positive feedback. Perhaps one of the most powerful preventative strategies for all students, especially students with autism, is providing high rates of positive feedback (i.e., reinforcement) for engaging in adaptive and expected behaviors. In fact, the ratio for positive feedback should be five positive statements or feedback to every one corrective statement or feedback. However, for students with autism it is important to identify forms of feedback that are perceived as positive. As was discussed previously, praise or other usual forms of positive feedback might not be positive for a student with autism. Other forms of feedback, such as a “high five” gesture or token that they can trade-in for something meaningful might be necessary. Consequence Based Strategy to Decrease Behavior • Extinction is a procedure to decrease behavior. It is the removal of reinforcement for a behavior that has been previously reinforced. For example, the teacher reprimands a student for yelling out the answers during class, resulting in an increase in the number of times the student yells out. In this situation, the reprimands are not an effective response to the student’s yelling and may be reinforcing the behavior. The teacher could implement extinction by no longer responding to the student every time they yell out an answer, and instead continuing with the lesson by calling on students who raise their hands. Because the behavior was increasing with reprimands (a form of attention) it is assumed that the behavior was being reinforced. By no longer responding and reprimanding, the teacher is not providing the reinforcement that was increasing and maintaining the behavior. It is common for there to be a temporary increase in the undesired behavior when adults stop responding in a way that was reinforcing the behavior (e.g., attention was given, or a demand was withdrawn). The student may continue to try the undesired behavior to test if the reinforcement will be provided. If the teacher is consistent in not responding to the undesired behavior, then the student will eventually stop engaging in the behavior. The combination of extinction (i.e., ignoring the undesired behavior, such as yelling out) 54 with providing reinforcement for the positive alternative behavior (e.g., raising hand to speak) is an extremely effective way to address a challenging behavior. Data-Based Decision-Making A cornerstone of effective instruction is the use of objective data to determine if an