Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality; August 2014. www.effectivehealthcare.ahrq.gov/reports/final.cfm. ii Preface The Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ), through its Evidence-based Practice Centers (EPCs), sponsors the development of systematic reviews to assist public- and private-sector organizations in their efforts to improve the quality of health care in the United States. These reviews provide comprehensive, science-based information on common, costly medical conditions, and new health care technologies and strategies. Systematic reviews are the building blocks underlying evidence-based practice; they focus attention on the strength and limits of evidence from research studies about the effectiveness and safety of a clinical intervention. In the context of developing recommendations for practice, systematic reviews can help clarify whether assertions about the value of the intervention are based on strong evidence from clinical studies. For more information about AHRQ EPC systematic reviews, see www.effectivehealthcare.ahrq.gov/reference/purpose.cfm. AHRQ expects that these systematic reviews will be helpful to health plans, providers, purchasers, government programs, and the health care system as a whole. Transparency and stakeholder input are essential to the Effective Health Care Program. Please visit the Web site (www.effectivehealthcare.ahrq.gov) to see draft research questions and reports or to join an email list to learn about new program products and opportunities for input. We welcome comments on this systematic review. They may be sent by mail to the Task Order Officer named below at: Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, 540 Gaither Road, Rockville, MD 20850, or by email to epc@ahrq.hhs.gov. Richard G. Kronick, Ph.D. Director Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality Yen-pin Chiang, Ph.D. Acting Deputy Director Center for Evidence and Practice Improvement Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality Stephanie Chang, M.D., M.P.H. Director, EPC Program Center for Evidence and Practice Improvement Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality Joanna Siegel, R.N., S.M., S.D. Task Order Officer Center for Evidence and Practice Improvement Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality iii Acknowledgments The authors gratefully acknowledge the following individuals for their contributions to this project: Jessica Kimber, Sanura Latham, Christine Shoaf, and Tanya Surawicz provided extremely helpful assistance with locating papers, initial data extraction, and formatting materials. Technical Expert Panel In designing the study questions and methodology at the outset of this report, the EPC consulted several technical and content experts. Broad expertise and perspectives were sought. Divergent and conflicted opinions are common and perceived as healthy scientific discourse that results in a thoughtful, relevant systematic review. Therefore, in the end, study questions, design, methodologic approaches, and/or conclusions do not necessarily represent the views of individual technical and content experts. Technical Experts must disclose any financial conflicts of interest greater than $10,000 and any other relevant business or professional conflicts of interest. Because of their unique clinical or content expertise, individuals with potential conflicts may be retained. The TOO and the EPC work to balance, manage, or mitigate any potential conflicts of interest identified. The list of Technical Experts who participated in developing this report follows: Benjamin Handen, Ph.D. University of Pittsburgh Pittsburgh, PA Susan Levy, M.D., M.P.H. Children’s Hospital