41.36±4.30 G2: 37.20±7.36 NR • Pilot evaluation of a reciprocal imitation training program • G1 made greater gains in spontaneous and prompted imitation, object imitation, gesture imitation, initiation of joint attention, and on the Social-Emotional Scale than G2 (p values ≤.05) • Number of spontaneous play actions associated with gains in spontaneous imitation and gesture imitation (p<.05) • Changes in imitation skills not associated with social functioning changes in mediation analysis 56 Table 9. Summary of outcomes of studies of play/interaction-based interventions (continued) Author, Year, Country Groups, N Enrollment/N Final Study Quality Age, Mean Months±SD IQ, Mean±SD Key Outcomes Parent-child communication studies Siller et al. 2013 156 US G1: Parental responsiveness intervention, 36/31 G2: Control, 34/31 Quality: Fair G1: 58.3±12.7 G2: 55.9±11.9 NR • Intervention focused on increasing parents’ responsiveness to child communication • Mothers of children in G1 demonstrated greater synchronization with child communication vs. G2 (p<.05, effect size=0.08) • No significant effects of intervention on expressive language • Mothers rated as more insightful at baseline had greater gains in synchronization Venker et al. 2011 154 US G1: Parental responsiveness intervention, 7/7 G2: Delayed treatment, 7/7 Quality: Fair G1+G2: 41.14±10.40 NR • Intervention targeting parents’ verbal responsive and engagement with child play • Both groups increased prompted communication acts from baseline to followup; in between group comparisons, G1 had greater increases vs. G2 (p<.03) • Number of children increasing spontaneous communication acts did not differ between groups DQ = developmental quotient; G = group; IQ = intelligence quotient; N = number; NR = not reported; SD = standard deviation Behavioral Interventions Focused on Associated Behaviors Key Points • Five good quality and two fair quality studies evaluated the effects of cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) on behaviors associated with ASD. • CBT improved anxiety symptoms and effects were maintained over time in six of the seven studies. The one study that did not show significant benefit compared with control group demonstrated an improvement in anxiety symptoms in the CBT group; however, it was not greater than that seen in the control group. This study was also the only study to use an active control (social recreational therapy) rather than a waitlist or treatment as usual control. • Two RCTs with treatment as usual control groups demonstrated significant positive effects of CBT on socialization. One study did not demonstrate significant positive effects of CBT on socialization; however, the comparison group engaged in social skills training. • One small RCT rated as fair demonstrated improvement in emotion regulation after treatment with CBT. • One good quality RCT demonstrated improvements in executive function in the CBT treatment group compared with control group receiving social skills intervention. • In a large fair quality RCT, augmentation of risperidone with parent training produced more significant improvement in adaptive behavior, socialization and communication than risperidone alone, but effects were not maintained after one year. This study also evaluated changes in observed appropriate behavior and did not find any between group changes. 57 Overview of the Literature We