2004. The PBS framework is based on empirically validated procedures primarily from the field of applied behavior analysis (ABA) with an emphasis on achieving community-based, valued outcomes for the person receiving intervention and support. IDEA specifically requires that schools have properly trained professionals to conduct a functional behavioral assessment (FBA) and develop a behavior intervention plan (BIP). While IDEA specifically addresses when a child with a disability has an educational placement change for disciplinary reasons, the use of the PBS framework is considered best practice in addressing any problem behaviors a student might be displaying. A hallmark of PBS is the combination of an FBA, which systematically identifies antecedents and consequences that maintain or increase problem behaviors, with an emphasis on prevention, teaching, and promoting alternative positive behaviors that serve the same function as the problem behavior (O’Neill et al., 2015). This approach is especially relevant for students with autism, because behavioral and skill deficits associated with autism can often lead to the development of challenging behaviors. For example, a student with autism may engage in throwing materials to escape from or delay an activity that they find aversive. The BIP that is developed from an FBA should include behavioral strategies that are comprised of the following components: preventative strategies, new skills to be taught, 58 reinforcement for appropriate behaviors, a plan for how adults will respond to the challenging behavior, and de-escalation/crisis management strategies. Crisis and de-escalation strategies are critical to identify as part of the behavior intervention plan. Common strategies that can often successfully de-escalate potentially dangerous behaviors include: stop touching and talking (e.g., stop giving directions, explanations, or reprimands) to the student, offer a choice or assist the student to use communication to gain control in a positive manner, put distance or objects (e.g., chair or couch) between the student and other individuals. The most important component of the FBA/BIP process for a student with autism is the identification of another skill (i.e., an alternative to the challenging behavior) that is systematically taught in the same way an academic skill might be approached (see earlier section on systematic instruction). This means that the alternative skill will be practiced, and reinforcement (usually the natural reinforcement) will follow the use of the new skill or behavior. For example, if the student hits, pushes, or grabs other students to get access to a toy, then teaching the student to ask for the toy and then receiving the toy as reinforcement will make it more likely that the student will request the toy before using the old behavior of hitting or pushing. The use of the new more adaptive skill will strengthen the more the student practices the skill and receives reinforcement. Multi-Tiered Systems of Support (MTSS) and Students with Autism The beginning stages of the development of PBS focused on providing intensive support for students engaging in more severe challenging behavior. However, early in the PBS development process, researchers and school personnel began to apply the elements of PBS on