of ABA delivered in an intensive (>15 hours per week) and comprehensive (i.e., addressing numerous areas of functioning) approach can positively affect a subset of children with ASD (Table B). Across approaches, children receiving early intensive behavioral and developmental interventions demonstrate improvements in cognitive, language, adaptive, and ASD impairments compared with children receiving low- intensity interventions and eclectic non–ABA-based intervention approaches. Since our previous review, there have also been substantially more studies of well-controlled low-intensity interventions aimed at parent training for comprehensive impact on social communication skills. Although parent training programs modified parenting behaviors during interactions, data are more limited about their ability to improve broad developmental skills (such as cognition, adaptive behavior, and ASD symptom severity) beyond short-term language gains for some children. A growing number of studies of improved quality demonstrated positive effects of social skills interventions on at least one outcome measure, but a lack of consistency in the interventions studied and outcome measures used makes it difficult to understand specific effects of different intervention modalities. A growing evidence base also suggests that children receiving targeted play-based interventions (e.g., joint attention, imitation, play-based interventions) demonstrate improvements in early social communication skills. Children receiving targeted joint attention packages in combination with other interventions show substantial improvements in joint attention and language skills over time. There is also evidence across a variety of play-based interventions that young children may display short-term improvements in early play, imitation, joint attention, and interaction skills. However, evidence that these short-term improvements are linked to broader indexes of change over time is not substantial. CBT for associated conditions such as anxiety had the largest number of high-quality studies in the current review. A strong evidence base now suggests that school-aged children with average to above average intelligence and comorbid anxiety symptoms receiving manualized CBT therapy show substantial improvements in anxiety compared with wait-list controls. Table B summarizes the strength of the evidence for each category of intervention. ES-11 Table B. Strength of the evidence Intervention Outcome SOE Study Design Quality (N Participants) Ratings for Domains Used To Assess SOE; Issues Key Findings Early intensive behavioral and developmental intervention: ABA based IQ/ cognitive Moderate for positive effect RCT: 1 good, 2 fair (360) Prospective cohort: 6 fair, 2 poor (521) nRCT; 1 good, 4 fair (170) Retrospective cohort: 1 fair, 2 poor (182) Study limitations: Medium Consistency: Consistent Directness: Direct Precision: Precise Reporting bias: Undetected Other concerns: Approaches across studies vary substantially; it is difficult to determine the effects of these unique studies on specific groups of children. Young children receiving high-intensity interventions display improvements in aspects of cognitive functioning. Most studies found that children in treatment and comparison groups both improved on cognitive skills, with children in early intensive behavioral interventions (target intervention) improving more than children receiving other types of services (eclectic comparators). Not all improvements were maintained at long-term followup Therefore, SOE was moderate for a positive effect relative to eclectic controls. Adaptive behavior Low for positive effect RCT: 1 good, 1