someone “knows” what to do (e.g., 85%, 90% accuracy). • A plan for when additional training and follow-up will be provided (e.g., weekly or bi- weekly). See the Resource section for example of a Quality Classroom Checklist that can be used to assess overall classroom fidelity. System-Level Approaches Inclusion and Students with Autism The autism spectrum represents students with a wide range of abilities and needs. Students with autism who have strong language and cognitive abilities are often more likely to be included in grade-level academic classes. However, students with autism who demonstrate behavioral or social interaction challenges are often placed in segregated classrooms even if academically they are on grade level. Inclusion in meaningful activities in general education settings also becomes less likely for students with autism who have significant delays in language and communication, independent skills, or cognitive skills. While classrooms that are only for students with autism may seem like an efficient means to serve children with unique characteristics and similar needs, it is often less effective. In these classrooms, students have fewer opportunities to interact with other students who have different strengths and needs. Another consideration regarding segregated classrooms for students with autism is the missed opportunities for natural supports available in general education classrooms such as peer support, modeling from other students, increased expectations and access to general education curriculum. Providing an inclusive school environment as defined by the least restrictive environment (LRE) requires that school teams indicate the amount of time a student will spend in general education and a rationale for placement in more restrictive learning environments. Successful inclusion of students with autism and related disabilities requires a team approach to plan the learning activities, services, and support required to meet a 56 student’s social, academic, and behavioral needs. This will likely involve different professionals, learning environments, student groupings, instructional formats, and methods. The process of determining and implementing plans assumes that the team is making decisions based on sound rationale and team consensus, and made explicit to all involved in implementation. When designing instruction for students with autism who have a wide range of abilities, a key belief is that even if full independent participation in an activity is not a realistic goal for a student, the student can still be actively and meaningfully included in all classroom activities (Ferguson & Baumgart, 1991). An underlying value of meaningful participation and an understanding regarding the benefits of inclusion for all students must be held by all school team members for successful inclusion. Including all students in the general education setting is not easy and involves a great deal more than placement alone. Successful inclusion requires meeting the underlying expectations listed below, and the resources to support those expectations. • A team of professionals is needed to design and implement a comprehensive educational program in the general education settings. Professionals with expertise from a variety of disciplines will identify learning activities, services, and supports needed to meet the students’ academic, functional skills, behavioral, and