a broader scale in school settings. This framework is now commonly referred to as multi-tiered systems of support (MTSS). A great deal of research supports the effectiveness of MTSS in achieving a decrease in challenging behaviors and bullying with corresponding increases in academic performance and other prosocial behaviors. (Sugai & Horner, 2009). Schools that utilize MTSS and effectively integrate students with more specialized needs, such as students with autism, will more likely prevent the need for intensive interventions. The OSDE-SES Policies and Procedures include a section on MTSS. Students with autism benefit from all levels of support identified as part of the MTSS model. However, it is likely that many students with autism will require higher levels of support throughout their schooling, such as small group or individualized teaching, to assist with understanding behavioral expectations and social norms. Potential obstacles for students with autism accessing supports available at each support level include limitations in language and communication skills making it difficult for some students to understand the behavioral expectations at the school-wide level which would impede participation. Possible solutions include using pictures or symbols to explain the behavioral expectations and corresponding consequences (e.g., rewards or loss of a privilege). 59 TRANSITION TO ADULTHOOD The Importance of Transition Planning Autistic students are expected to adapt to a variety of changes beyond the school environment. The adjustments that must be made to different environments and the expectations of society can be extremely challenging without appropriate planning, preparation, and support. One of the most challenging transitions autistic students and their families must make is leaving the public-school system and entering the adult service system. Some of those challenges include making decisions about employment, post-secondary education, residential support, community involvement, and how to access needed services. Once an autistic student graduates from high school with a standard diploma or reaches the maximum age of 22 on or before September 1, they are no longer eligible for services under IDEA. This means they will no longer have an Individualized Education Program (IEP). The adult service systems have different criteria for eligibility requiring the young adult to qualify for the specific service they need. Access to supports for employment, post-secondary education, or community living/involvement are not guaranteed for every autistic person. As a result, there are many unknowns that a young adult and family may face during this transition. There are other factors that make the transition from high school to post high school particularly challenging for autistic students. First, the daily routines that autistic students have relied on to understand expectations are no longer available. Changes, such as leaving public school or getting a new job, are often overwhelming. Second, because peer relationships are often supported by the school environment, making new social connections for young autistic adults can be difficult without support. This can lead to experiences of isolation and loneliness. Third, autistic individuals may have co-occurring difficulties such as depression, anxiety, or an intellectual disability which can increase the complexity of support needed.