the number of providers in community settings who are capable of implementing these programs may be limited. Most studies of social skills interventions targeted elementary school – aged children (6 – 13 years old) with few studies targeting preschool-age children, although such interventions may be important in this younger age group. Most studies also excluded children with IQs falling outside of the average range. Similarly, CBT for conditions commonly associated with ASD was targeted toward older children with generally average cognitive abilities and comorbid anxiety disorders. Limitations of the Review Process We limited this update to comparative studies and included only those with at least 10 individuals. Thus, we did not include data from pre-post studies or those with a very small number of children. These would include a number of single subject design studies that may be helpful for understanding focused questions of short-term efficacy in individual children and that may be useful for explicating mechanisms of action. These studies are less able to contribute to the body of evidence that we sought on population-level and generalizable effects. Users of this review may want to take those studies into account as context when applying our findings. We limited our review to English-language studies, not finding evidence that we were missing relevant research in other languages. We also did not include interventions primarily viewed as medical, educational, complementary/alternative, or allied health in nature. Limitations of the Evidence Base Despite improvements, the existing literature still has significant methodological concerns that in many ways continue to limit the strength of these conclusions. Evidence for the impact of intensive ABA-based interventions on cognitive, language, and adaptive skills and ASD symptoms also highlights important limitations of current treatment modalities. First, even ES-17 children who demonstrate clinically significant improvements in these areas often continue to display substantial impairment in these and other areas over time. Second, not all children receiving intensive ABA-based intervention showed robust improvements in these domains. Thus, it is still challenging to predict long-term functional and adaptive outcomes on an individual level. Further, although children receiving early intensive developmental and behavioral intervention commonly display substantial improvements, the magnitude of these effects varies across studies and may indicate subgroups showing variable responses to particular interventions. Intervention response is likely moderated by both treatment and child factors. Despite multiple studies of early intensive treatments, intervention approaches still vary substantially, which makes it difficult to tease apart what these unique treatment and child factors may be. Similarly, data on provider type and qualifications are variably reported, and the impact of provider characteristics on treatment outcomes is unclear. Study sample sizes are typically small (total numbers ranging from 11 to 284 for studies in the current review, median = 40), and some studies may be considered pilots for larger studies that may better answer questions about intervention intensity and moderators of effects. At this time, the evidence is insufficient to adequately identify and target the children who are most likely to benefit (or not benefit) from