behavioral interventions described in this current review, 19 studies are good quality, and 48 of the 65 included studies are RCTs. These improvements allow us to make some stronger conclusions about certain elements of the behavioral intervention literature. Considerable and consistent evidence suggests that early behavioral and developmental intervention based on the principles of ABA delivered in intensive (>15 hours per week) and comprehensive (i.e., addressing numerous areas of functioning) form can significantly affect the development of some children with ASD. The current review includes RCTs of the UCLA/Lovaas-focused approach, a developmentally focused ESDM approach, a school delivered training (LEAP), as well as prospective comparisons of eclectic variants of ABA approaches. Across approaches, children receiving early intensive behavioral and developmental interventions have demonstrated improvements in cognitive, language, adaptive, and ASD impairments compared with children receiving low-intensity interventions and eclectic non-ABA based intervention approaches. Since our previous review, there have also been substantially more studies of well-controlled low intensity interventions including parent training aimed at social communication skills. This growing evidence base suggests that such interventions may have positive results in very young children’s social communication and language use. However, although parent training programs certainly modified parenting behaviors during interactions, data are more limited about their ability to improve broad developmental skills (such as cognition, adaptive behavior, and ASD symptom severity) beyond short-term language gains for some children. A growing number of studies of improved quality have demonstrated benefit of social skills interventions on at least one outcome measure, but a lack of consistency in the interventions studied and outcome measures utilized makes it difficult to understand the consistency or precision of impact across intervention modes. Further, social skills interventions have also been limited to a restricted range of children to date. A growing evidence base suggests that children receiving targeted play-based interventions (e.g., joint attention, imitation, play-based interventions) demonstrate improvements in early social communication skills. Children receiving targeted joint attention packages in combination 103 with other interventions show substantial improvements in joint attention and language skills over time. Young children in play-based interventions may display short-term improvements in early play, imitation, joint attention, and interaction skills. However, there is not substantial evidence that these short-term improvements are linked to broader indices of change over time. CBT for associated conditions such as anxiety has the largest number of high quality studies in the current review. A strong evidence base suggests that school-aged children with average to above average intelligence and comorbid anxiety symptoms receiving manualized CBT therapy show substantial improvements in anxiety compared with wait-list controls. Importantly, CBT therapy is often targeted, delimited, and has numerous manualized approaches available for study. Further, CBT intervention for anxiety has been studied within a restricted population to date (e.g., average to above average cognitive skills with comorbid anxiety). In sum, a growing evidence base suggests that behavioral interventions are associated with positive outcomes for children with ASD. Despite improvements in the quality of the included literature, a need remains for studies of interventions across