aside within government and payment is provided directly to eligible service providers upon submission of authorized invoices. • Some families with children ages 12 to 18 may choose to access their funding through the ‘direct payment’ option. Any inquiries regarding service provider payments for services provided to families accessing ‘direct payment’ should be directed to the family and not the Autism Funding Branch. • For more information about the ‘Invoice Payment’ and ‘Direct Payment’ options, please see pages 17-18. The Registry of Autism Service Providers (RASP) • The Registry of Autism Service Providers (RASP) is a list of professionals that provide services to children with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD). The RASP includes Behaviour Consultants/Analysts, Speech-Language Pathologists (S-LP), Occupational Therapists (OT), and Physical Therapists (PT). • The purpose of the RASP is to ensure that parents of young children with ASD have access to professionals whose education, training, and experience qualifies them to design, supervise, and oversee the implementation of intensive, comprehensive, and effective treatment programs. • To be included on the RASP, professionals must demonstrate that their education and experience meet the qualifications set by MCFD. • Applications for the RASP can be found at http://www2. gov.bc.ca/assets/gov/health/managing-your-health/ autism/application_registry_autism_service_providers.pdf • All inquiries regarding the RASP application process, including appeals, should be made to Autism Information Services BC (AIS BC): http://autisminfo.gov.bc.ca/rasp/ • Families receiving funding through the Autism Funding: Under Age 6 Program must select their professionals from the RASP. Note : Family counselling/therapy services do not need to be listed on the RASP. • Families receiving funding from the Autism Funding: Ages 6-18 Program are not required to select their professionals from the RASP; however, it is strongly recommended. • Behaviour Interventionists (BI) are not required to be on the RASP, as they do not have the qualifications to work in isolation or to design and adjust intervention plans; they should be supervised by a RASP professional. The RASP professional is ultimately responsible for the work performed by the BI. • For more details please see: http://autisminfo.gov.bc.ca/ rasp/ 35 Autism Funding: Under Age 6 • Parents with children in the Autism Funding: Under Age 6 program, must select their Behaviour Consultant/Analyst, S-LP, OT, and PT from the RASP. • Behaviour Consultant/Analysts, S-LPs, OTs, and PTs who are not listed on the RASP are not eligible to invoice the Autism Funding: Under Age 6 Program. • The Behaviour Plan of Intervention (BPI): • It is MCFD policy that each child’s intervention program must be based on a plan that takes into account his or her unique strengths and needs. The BPI is typically written by a Behaviour Consultant/Analyst, with input from family members and other professional team members, such as the S-LP, OT, PT or other Educators. The BPI should be reviewed and updated regularly to ensure that your child is making meaningful progress. Autism Funding: Ages 6-18 • Behaviour Consultants/Analysts, S-LPs, OTs, and OTs working with children in the Autism Funding: Ages 6-18 Program are not required to be on the