intervention is effective for an individual student. School teams may plan to teach a student a new skill, but if plans do not result in student learning, then changes to the plans must be made. It is rare that plans to teach new skills or change behavior will always be successful from the beginning, so careful documentation of progress or lack of progress is critical so that corrections can be made. There are many circumstances that can interfere with a student with autism learning a new skill, such as individual learner characteristics, a learning history that may include a negative experience, or sensory sensitivities. Collecting data is essential to making instructional modifications and can be done in a variety of ways. The most common way is through direct observation of student performance and recording specific events, correct or incorrect responses, levels of assistance, or time-based recording such as how long it takes a student to respond to an instruction. Data can also be collected to monitor the frequency or intensity of challenging behavior. This is critical in order to determine if a behavior intervention plan is effective (Alberto & Troutman, 2012; Cooper, Heron, & Howard 2020). It is important that data are summarized in a format that is accessible and easy to see changes in behavior. A visual representation of the data is a good way to easily see whether learning is improving, getting worse, or staying the same. A bar graph or line graph is an easy way to quickly inspect the data. The collection and analysis of student performance data will inform the team what changes need to be made to instruction or intervention plans. The Importance of Fidelity of Implementation of EBPs To produce desired outcomes evidence-based strategies or behavior plans must be implemented as intended (i.e., with fidelity). If interventions are not implemented with fidelity, student progress can fall below desired levels in a short period of time. For instance, in multiple school-based studies fidelity of behavioral interventions began at 100% following training and decreased significantly in a ten-day follow-up. The issue of fidelity is often not prioritized with the many demands on educators’ time. However, when evidence-based interventions are not implemented as planned it is more likely that no improvement will be made resulting in negative impacts for students and staff. Also, poor fidelity of implementation for procedures using fewer resources will be dismissed as ineffective, leading to the unnecessary need for more resource intensive procedures. 55 To conduct checks for fidelity, it is important that everyone knows what to do to implement the intervention. This will require using an established protocol, manual, or checklist for a particular procedure. All team members should be involved in the planning and the plan should include: • Clear steps outlining the procedure. • How fidelity will be measured (e.g., a simple outline of steps with yes/no criteria). • A plan to directly teach all team members to implement the procedure. • Determine level of accuracy needed to indicate