manualized versions of training that can be adopted in other settings with appropriate training. Again the availability of providers capable of translating these programs may be limited in some community settings. Most studies of social skills interventions targeted elementary school aged children (between 6 and 13 years old) with few studies targeting preschool age children, although such 98 interventions may be important in this younger age group. Most studies also excluded children with IQ falling outside of the average range and certainly those below 70. Therefore, evidence on social skills interventions is likely applicable to older, higher functioning children only. Similarly, CBT for commonly associated conditions was targeted toward older children with gross average cognitive abilities and comorbid anxiety disorders. The effectiveness of both of these types of interventions in other groups of children with ASD is currently unknown. Implications for Clinical and Policy Decisionmaking This review may be useful to groups producing guidelines for practice, including professional organizations, state-level Medicaid medical directors, Federal entities and insurers. It provides an overview of available behavioral interventions and benefits observed to date that clinicians may find useful in making individual clinical recommendations to their patients and patient families. The larger body of literature of higher quality than in the previous review provides continued support for earlier conclusions that behavioral interventions can be beneficial for some children. Guidelines developed on the basis of the prior review warrant updating based on the level of new information and the degree to which strength of evidence shifted in the current review. The evidence in favor of the efficacy of several types of behavioral interventions has increased, but there remains clinical uncertainty about whether and how individual children will benefit from specific programs of intervention, which creates a challenge for implementation. Further, some interventions are limited in terms of the subset of the ASD population they are designed to treat (e.g., CBT and social skills interventions for older children with relatively intact cognitive abilities). In addition, pragmatic issues such as the availability of skilled providers and interventions themselves, resources to pay for interventions, as well as family considerations and preferences, may influence and guide treatment decisions. Although there is increasing evidence that children with ASD who receive appropriate behavioral intervention can have substantial improvements in functioning, we have limited knowledge of the actual numbers of families able to access such services on a community level. Young children with ASD (below 36 months) are often eligible for services through Early Intervention (Part C) programs, with all states and eligible territories currently providing such programs. These systems presumably allow children to receive services based on risk prior to diagnosis as well as post-diagnosis, but services may range in intensity and focus. Children who are over age 3 often have access to additional services through their school district, but the nature of appropriate services provided within these systems varies. A majority of U.S. states (estimated at over 35 200 ) have enacted ASD insurance reform legislation that provides for specific