intervention had significantly greater improvement in language comprehension and expression as measured by the Reynell Developmental Language Scales. Waitlisted children had significantly greater improvements in followup Vineland Socialization scores than children in either treatment group. No other significant differences emerged among the three groups on other child outcomes. When analyses were limited only to children with autism spectrum diagnoses, the magnitude of the effects increased, but the presence of statistical significance did not change. 96 Another good quality RCT from the United States 109 compared the language development of two groups of children with ASD diagnoses, one whose parents received training in a component of ABA, Pivotal Response Training (n=20, mean age=29.5 months, SD=6.9), and another whose parents received training in PECS (n=19, mean age=28.9, SD=4.2). Exclusion criteria included having more than nine intelligible words and having primary diagnoses of intellectual disability, neurological pathology or major sensory impairment. Participants were matched on word use, age, and cognitive functioning. Over the course of 23 weeks, parents completed weekly or biweekly 2-hour parent training sessions from doctoral students. Participants received one-on- one treatment in the home (mean=247 hours, range=181-263) from undergraduate student therapists. Therapist and parent-educator fidelity was maintained at 80 percent. Participants continued to receive outside interventions (e.g., speech therapy) and this was monitored via weekly parent report, with no significant between-group differences emerging. Outcome variables were assessed at intake, immediately post-treatment, and three months post-treatment. Not all post-treatment coders were blind to participant condition, but no differences were found across blinded vs. not blinded sites. Data were not available on all participants at followup (n=38 for Mullen Scales of Early Learning, 35 for MacArthur Communicative Development Inventories, 35 for Vineland). No differences emerged between Pivotal Response Training and PECS groups. Both improved similarly on all variables over time, with effect sizes across collapsed groups of .216 for expressive communication (Mullen Scales of Early Learning; p<.001), .486 for words produced (MacArthur Communicative Development 30 Inventories; p<.001), and .110 for adaptive communication skills (Vineland; p=.037). The authors reported significant variability in participants’ responses to treatment. Parent satisfaction post-treatment was similar across groups, with the only significant difference being the parent- reported difficulty of PECS (p=.005). Two prospective cohort studies also received good quality ratings. The first was conducted in Australia 100 and compared professional-led parent training (n=17; mean child age, 36.38 months±7.54; 88.2% male) to a self-directed video-based parent intervention (n=22; mean=35.71 months±6.92; 72.7% male). Nearly 80 percent (77%) of participants were diagnosed with autism and the rest with an ASD. Mean IQ was 53.06±9.06 for the professionally led group and 52.86±6.53 for the video-based group. Exclusion criteria included being enrolled in early intervention, passing the Modified Checklist for Autism in Toddlers (M-CHAT), or receiving more than 20 hours/week of services. No information was provided about manualization. In the professionally led group, parents attended a two-day group workshop and completed a series of 10 hour-long home visits, which occurred two times a week for 5 to 6 weeks. These visits focused on