6-month followup; however, only the social recreational group demonstrated reduction in anxiety immediately following intervention. CGI-S scores improved over time for both groups, but group differences at final followup were not significant. Another fair quality RCT was conducted in the United States 182 evaluating the Building Confidence CBT program modified for use in children with ASD. The study included 12 children ages 7 to 11 years meeting criteria for both ASD and at least one anxiety disorder who had verbal IQs greater than 70 and no other primary psychiatric diagnosis. The intervention group underwent 32 weekly 90 minute sessions and was compared with a treatment as usual control group. There were no significant differences between groups. The outcome measured in this study was diagnosis of anxiety disorder and severity of symptoms at the end of the intervention. At the end of intervention, fewer children in the treatment group had an anxiety diagnosis (p=0.013); severity of anxiety was also more significantly reduced in the treatment group compared with the treatment as usual arm (p=.017) One good quality RCT reported in multiple publications 165 , 166 , 178 examined the effects of the Building Confidence CBT program adapted for children with ASD on anxiety symptoms, daily living skills, and, in a subgroup of children, socialization. Forty children ages 7 to 11 with ASD and separation anxiety, social phobia, or obsessive-compulsive disorder and IQ >70 were randomized to the CBT group or to waitlist control group. No group differences were noted with the exception of more children in the CBT vs. control group having comorbid diagnosis of major depressive disorder or dysthymia (18% vs. 0%, respectively). The intervention consisted of 16 weekly 60-90 minute CBT sessions. Assessments of anxiety included the Anxiety Diagnostic Interview Schedule, the Multidimensional Anxiety Scale for Children parent and child reports, and the Clinical Global Impressions-Improvement (CGI-I) scale. Measures of daily living skills included the Vineland and the Parent Child Interaction Questionnaire, which assesses the level of parent involvement in daily living skills. Socialization was measured with the Social Responsiveness Scale in a group of 19 children from the early stages of recruitment. Most measures were repeated at baseline, at the end of the intervention and, for 10 intervention 60 participants who were still available, at 3 months after the end of intervention. The CGI-I was only collected at the end of intervention and at the 3-month followup. At the end of intervention, 92.2 percent of the intervention group met criteria for positive treatment response based on CGI- I and 64.3 percent no longer met criteria for any anxiety disorder on the Anxiety Disorders Interview Schedule, compared with only 9.1 percent demonstrating positive treatment response on the CGI-I and (p<0.0001) and 9.1 percent no longer meeting criteria for anxiety disorder in the control group (p<0.0001). Overall this data did not change significantly at the three-month followup period. The MASC scores were significantly lower in the intervention group vs. the control group at followup (p<0.0001) for the parental report however