diagnostic approach for ASD used within the study, or were referred participants diagnosed using a valid approach? A. A clinical diagnosis based on the DSM, in addition to the ADI-R and/or ADOS assessments. B. A combination of a DSM clinical diagnosis with one other assessment tool; or the ADOS assessment in combination with one other assessment tool. C. Either a clinical DSM-based diagnosis alone or the ADOS assessment alone. D. Neither a clinical DSM-based diagnosis nor the ADOS assessment Participant ascertainment 1. Was the sample clearly characterized (e.g., information provided to characterize participants in terms of impairments associated with their ASD, such as cognitive or developmental level)? 2. Were inclusion and exclusion criteria clearly stated? 3. Do the authors report attrition? 4. Were characteristics of the drop-out group evaluated for differences with the participant group as a whole? Intervention characteristics 1. Was the intervention fully described? 2. Was treatment fidelity monitored in a systematic way? (for non-medical interventions) 3. Did the authors measure and report adherence to the intended treatment process? (for medical interventions) 4. Did the authors report differences in or hold steady all concomitant interventions? Outcomes measurement 1. Did outcome measures demonstrate adequate reliability and validity (including inter-observer reliability for behavior observation coding)? 2. Were outcomes coded and assessed by individuals blinded to the intervention status of the participants? Statistical analysis 1. For RCTs, was there an intent-to-treat analysis? 2. For negative studies, was a power calculation provided? 3. For observational studies, were potential confounders and effect measure modifiers captured? 13 4. For observational studies, were potential confounders and effect measure modifiers handled appropriately? Table 2. Description of study quality levels Quality Level Description Good Good studies are considered to have the least bias and results are considered valid. A good study has a clear description of the population, setting, interventions, and comparison groups; uses a valid approach to allocate patients to treatments; has a low dropout rate; and uses appropriate means to prevent bias; measure outcomes; analyze and report results. Fair Fair studies are susceptible to some bias, but probably not sufficient to invalidate the results. A study may be missing information, making it difficult to assess limitations and potential problems. As the “fair quality” category is broad, studies with this rating vary in their strengths and weaknesses. The results of some fair-quality studies are possibly valid, while others are probably valid. Poor Poor studies are subject to significant bias that may invalidate the results. These studies have serious errors in design, analysis, or reporting; have large amounts of missing information; or have discrepancies in reporting. The results of a poor-quality study are at least as likely to reflect flaws in the study design as to indicate true differences between the compared interventions. Determining Quality Levels We assessed each domain described above individually and considered the individual ratings to determine an overall quality assessment of good, fair, or poor. We required that studies receive positive scores questions related to study design and diagnostic approach to be considered