social support needs. The learning activities designed to teach the range of needs will require discipline specific input, a variety of student groupings and learning environments, a range of instructional formats, and teaching methods and materials. For example, students with autism may need academic tasks broken down into smaller objectives with specific teaching procedures outlined. Plans need to be explicitly outlined for how classroom academic tasks will be adapted and how less structured learning will occur during common school activities such as lunch, assemblies, and field trips (Doyle, 2008; Snell & Janney, 2005). Universal Design for Learning (UDL) is a framework that can be used to support the needs of all learners and remove unnecessary barriers to learning. More information about UDL can be found on the Oklahoma State Department of Education website. • Necessary time and resources are available to allow the team to develop explicitly outlined and monitored instruction and support, and decisions will be made through team consensus. One example could include a student with autism who struggles socially, may be bullied, and responds to social demands with outbursts and threats. These behaviors may result in the student being excluded from general education classes even though the student can complete the academic work. In this case, a team would design a comprehensive plan (e.g., peer mentor, social skills instruction) to better support the student in these situations while directly teaching the student social skills to better respond to bullying or social demands that result in behavioral outbursts. Another example is a student with autism who has more significant communication and cognitive delays. This student may need more 57 modified academic instruction and well-planned support (e.g., task analysis, explicit instructional procedures for activities of daily living) for learning other important skills, such as communication and independence, while also learning academics. • All students will be involved in learning how to create a safe, accepting, and more inclusive environment . This may include education for all students about autism and how best to support their peers who are on the spectrum. Also, the plan may address bullying and ensure that cooperative and respectful behavior is rewarded more often and that the burden for change is not only placed on the student with autism if other students are also contributing to the challenges. The benefit of inclusion for students with disabilities, including students with autism, is well supported by research. All students in general education also benefit academically and socially by the supports available to the students with disabilities. While the benefits are numerous, barriers to successful inclusion certainly do exist and school systems are often not designed to support high quality inclusive practices. Change can happen over time with a common vision, goals, and planning to allow for students with autism and other disabilities to participate more fully in educational opportunities available to all students. Positive Behavior Support (PBS) and Autism The positive behavior support framework (PBS) was added to the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) reauthorization in