et al., 2018). Children with autism are twice as likely to experience an anxiety disorder and four times as likely to experience a depressive disorder, compared to their typically developing peers. Children with autism are also more likely to experience bullying, social isolation, and child abuse (Toseeb & Asbury, 2023). The rate of death by suicide has been estimated to be 7.5 times higher for people with autism (Hirvikoski et al., 2016). Other co- occurring medical and mental health conditions can include: • Sleep disorders • Gastrointestinal disorders (constipation and feeding difficulties) • Speech disorders • Epilepsy • Hypotonia (decreased muscle tone) • Pica • Eczema • Anxiety disorders • Attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder • Developmental delay Characteristics It is important to remember that each person is unique, so not all students with autism will have the same behaviors. Most will have at least several of the behaviors listed below. These behaviors can also vary depending on a child’s developmental level and unique skillsets. Communication and Social Interaction • Differences in language development, ranging from delayed or disordered to early or advanced • Challenges using communication for social reasons (e.g., directing attention, sharing enjoyment, back-and-forth interaction) • Difficulty with appropriately initiating interactions, such as conversations or play • Difficulty maintaining interactions, such as conversations or play • Challenges using nonverbal communication (e.g., eye-contact, facial expressions, gestures, body language) • Difficulty adjusting behavior to different social contexts • Reduced awareness of social expectations or boundaries 8 • Challenges making and maintaining relationships with same-aged peers • Unusual tone of voice, volume, or rate of speech (e.g., high pitched, little variation in pitch, sing-song) Repetitive Activities and Stereotyped Movements • Repetitive motor behaviors (e.g., hand flapping, finger twisting/flicking, spinning, rocking, facial grimacing, tensing) • Repetitive speech (e.g., echolalia, undirected speech, scripted/stereotyped speech) • Repetitive use of objects (e.g., lining up toys, dropping/spinning/flipping objects, sorting) • Restricted or fixated interests Resistance to Environmental Change or Change in Daily Routines • Insistence on sameness (e.g., distress at small changes, difficulty with transitions) • Inflexible adherence to routines or rituals Unusual Responses to Sensory Experiences • Interest or aversion to sensory input (e.g., sound, taste, smell, touch/texture, light, movement) How Autism May Look in the School Environment • Many students with autism can use expressive communication skills and coping skills when they are well regulated; however, they may have more difficulty accessing these skills when upset or overwhelmed and may express frustration or disappointment through behavioral or emotional outbursts. • Some students with autism may have challenges with broad instructions and may perform best with clearly defined expectations for each activity. • Many students with autism demonstrate repetitive behaviors, such as body or hand movements or repetitive speech. These behaviors can be ways for students with autism to help regulate themselves and focus attention. • Changes in routine or expectations, along with transitions between activities and environments, can be common sources of anxiety for students with autism. • Many students with autism have challenges focusing on