the possibility of ASD. Please see the OSDE-SES Policies and Procedures for more information on screening. Clinical/Medical Diagnosis vs. School-Based Eligibility Receiving a clinical/medical diagnosis of autism does not automatically entitle a student to special education and related services under the IDEA. While there is some overlap, different processes and criteria are used to determine a clinical/medical diagnosis versus classification under the educational category of “autism” and eligibility for special education in the public school. A clinical/medical diagnosis of Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) is made by a doctor or specially trained clinician using the criteria set out in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition, Text Revision (DSM-5-TR), which is published by the American Psychological Association (APA). To meet criteria for ASD using the DSM-5-TR, a student must meet a specific number of symptoms in both social-communication and repetitive/restrictive behavior domains. 19 Because autism spectrum disorder can be so varied in its presentation from person to person, the DSM-5-TR also includes a level that accompanies a diagnosis of autism. While levels are not part of the IDEA definition of autism, school professionals may encounter information about levels of support when reviewing outside evaluations. There are three levels, each of which refers to how much support a person with autism needs in order to function in their daily life, with Level 3 requiring the highest level of support. • Level 1 Requiring Support: without supports in place, deficits in social communication/inflexibility of behavior can cause noticeable impairments. • Level 2 Requiring Substantial Support: marked deficits in social communication and inflexibility of behavior are apparent even with social supports in place. • Level 3 Requiring Very Substantial Support: severe deficits in social communication skills and inflexibility of behavior are present and cause severe impairments in functioning. It is important to remember that while the levels can be a helpful descriptor to inform supports and intervention planning, they do not give a complete picture of each person’s strengths and challenges. In contrast, school-based eligibility is determined by an educational team including the student’s parents/caregivers and does not result in a clinical/medical diagnosis. To be eligible for special education, a student must meet criteria for a specific disability category (i.e., Autism) and demonstrate a need for special education services. A primary distinction between a clinical/medical diagnosis of ASD and educational eligibility determination is the impact that autism has on the student’s educational performance. To determine educational eligibility, the school team must determine criteria are met for the disability category of Autism and that the student needs special education services. Because of this distinction, a student may meet criteria for a clinical/medical diagnosis of ASD but not be eligible for special education services. In addition, a medical diagnosis of ASD is not required to determine if a student is eligible for special education services. If a student is ineligible for special education services, they may still qualify for other educational accommodations. Comprehensive Autism Evaluation under IDEA In a school-based evaluation, a team