Early intervention programs for children with autism often include some or all of the following services: • Family or parent training • Speech therapy • Occupational therapy • Physical therapy • Applied Behavior Analysis Early intervention programs often focus on several core developmental skills: • Physical skills (e.g., gross of fine motor skills development) • Thinking skills (e.g., problem solving and knowledge skills) • Communication skills • Social skills • Emotional regulation skills • Daily living skills Functioning Labels Many people have heard the terms “high functioning,” “low functioning,” “mild,” and “severe” when used to describe autism. While these terms are often used as an attempt to describe the abilities of people with autism, they can be misleading and ambiguous. Individuals with autism and professionals have expressed that these terms often fail to consider the complexity of autistic abilities and how they can vary significantly depending on the time, situation, or context. For example, a person with autism may be able to participate in a conversation when they are calm and in a familiar, comfortable environment. That same person may not be able to use expressive communication skills in settings where they are over-stimulated, tired, or overwhelmed. Instead, it is recommended that specific skillsets and support needs that are most salient to the situation or environment are described when referring to the strengths and challenges of a person with autism (Alvares et al., 2020). For example, instead of saying that a person has “high functioning autism,” it is more helpful to say that a person has autism with low support needs. As an example of how to describe more specific skills and support needs, a person could say that a student has a sound sensitivity, is overwhelmed in crowds, is verbally fluent, and works well independently. Females with Autism There is a growing body of research supporting that autism can sometimes look different in females, causing females with autism to be under-identified. This may be due in part to what is 11 referred to “camouflaging” or “masking.” These terms refer to the ability of a person with autism to learn and perform certain behaviors and suppress other behaviors in order to fit in more with the people around them. Females with autism, particularly those without an intellectual disability, seem to be more likely to engage in camouflaging behaviors and are often misdiagnosed, under-diagnosed, or diagnosed later on in life (Ratto et al., 2018). While camouflaging behaviors can provide some social advantages, they can also lead to disadvantages including experiences of anxiety, depression, exhaustion (Kim, So Yoon, & Bottema-Beutel, 2019). Many females do not display as many traditional autism characteristics and may have a quieter presentation of autism symptoms. For example, females with autism can show fewer repetitive or restricted behaviors than males, they may be more likely to control their behavior in public, they may be more likely to smile or make eye-contact, mimic others, and they may be more socially motivated. In addition, females with autism are more likely