that occur before or as the child is expected to respond. The types of prompts most used to assist with learning include gestural prompts, verbal prompts, picture prompts, model prompts, and physical prompts. Classroom Examples: A teacher points to the correct answer before the student is required to respond. The paraprofessional provides partial physical assistance to follow a new classroom routine. • Prompt Fading is the gradual removal of a prompt by reducing the amount of support needed to complete a task. It is critical to remove prompts as quickly as possible by using prompt fading techniques because students with autism can easily become dependent on prompts. 37 Classroom Example: The teacher uses a hierarchy of prompts to teach independent skills. She first physically assists the young student to place his backpack on the hook. After several days of success, she now reduces the amount of prompting by pointing at the hook, and the student hangs up the backpack. Lastly, the student hangs up the backpack independently. • Social Narratives are written/pictorial narratives of a difficult social situation which describes who, what, when, where, why of the social situation. Classroom Example: A student with autism is telling other students during small group what to do and yelling if they do not complete the activity “correctly.” The teacher creates a written social narrative with pictures describing the situation from the student’s perspective (e.g., “Sometimes when I work with others, I get angry when they do not follow the rules. My classmates do not like it when I tell them what to do. I will try to ask my friend, “Can I make a suggestion?” or “I have an idea” before getting mad.) • Antecedent-Based Intervention is planned to occur before a target behavior and modifies events or conditions in the environment to increase the likelihood of desired behaviors and reduce the likelihood of problematic behaviors. Classroom Examples: A student has difficulty stopping and starting activities. He will often refuse to stop and will not move when asked. The teacher creates a visual schedule of the activities each day and teaches him to identify what activity will be next. The teacher presents his visual schedule before transitions. He is now able to transition without protests for most transitions. An 11th grade student who uses verbal language and picture symbols to communicate will often hit others when tired of doing work. The teachers modify the student’s work by dividing the required work into sections and then allowing the student to take a break before going to the next section of required work. The following EBPs are strategies that require more in-depth training. • Discrete Trial Teaching (DTT) is an instructional format with repeated learning trials (planned opportunities to respond) provided in a short period of time. Each opportunity includes teacher instruction, student response, teacher prompt (if necessary), and consequence (e.g., positive reinforcement) followed by a pause before the next learning trial. Classroom Example: The teacher schedules a time for focused instruction each day.