two out of the three domains other than study limitations. Once we established the maximum strength of evidence possible based upon these criteria, we assessed the number of studies and range of study designs for a given intervention-outcome pair, and downgraded the strength of evidence rating when the cumulative evidence was not sufficient to justify the higher rating. Key Findings and Strength of Evidence KQ1. Effects of Behavioral Interventions on Core and Commonly Associated Symptoms in Children With ASD Early Intensive Behavioral and Developmental Interventions Within this category, we included intensive behavioral and developmental interventions derived from applied behavior analysis (ABA) principles that targeted a broad range of skills and vulnerabilities. As such, this category includes defined manualized approaches that vary substantially in terms of their structure, approach and setting (e.g., University of California, Los Angeles [UCLA]/Lovaas, Early Start Denver Model [ESDM], Learning Experiences and Alternate Program for Preschoolers and their Parents [LEAP]) as well as more eclectically defined and delivered approaches. ABA is an umbrella term describing principles and techniques used in the assessment, treatment and prevention of challenging behaviors and the promotion of new desired behaviors. The goal of ABA is to teach new skills, promote generalization of these 78 skills, and reduce challenging behaviors with systematic reinforcement. The principles and techniques of ABA existed for decades prior to specific application and study within ASD. An additional set of interventions included here uses the principles of ABA to focus on key pivotal behaviors rather than global improvements. These approaches emphasize parent training (e.g., Pivotal Response Training, Hanen More than Words, social pragmatic intervention, etc.) and may focus on core social-communication skills or specific behaviors, such as initiating activities. In the 2011 review, we identified 17 comparative studies of early intensive behavioral and developmental intervention 57-75 (described in 19 papers), of which six were RCTs (two good quality, 73 , 75 four fair 57 , 69 , 71 , 72 ), five were nonrandomized trials (four fair quality, 64-68 , 74 one poor 70 ), four were prospective cohort studies (three fair 60 , 61 , 63 and one poor quality 62 ), and two were poor quality retrospective cohort studies. 58 , 59 We located 37 papers comprising 25 unique studies addressing early intensive behavioral and developmental interventions for this review update. Individual studies using intensive UCLA/Lovaas-based interventions, ESDM, the LEAP program, and eclectic variants reported improvements in outcomes for young children. Our strength of the evidence assessment considers studies from both the 2011 and current reviews. Improvements were most often seen in cognitive abilities and language acquisition with less robust and consistent improvements seen in adaptive skills, core ASD symptom severity, and social functioning. Young children receiving high intensity ABA-based interventions over the course of extended time frames (i.e., 8 months--2 years) commonly display substantial improvement in cognitive functioning and language skills relative to community controls. However, the magnitude of these effects varies across studies and this variation may describe subgroups showing different responses to particular interventions.