ASD symptoms. Presumably, changes measured on these instruments document important skills with potential impact in other areas. However, some caution is warranted: In some instances, the interventions themselves may actually target component skills of these assessments, particularly in the case of cognitive and language assessments. The majority of the social skills and behavioral intervention studies targeting associated conditions attempted to index outcomes based on parent, self, teacher, and peer report of targeted symptoms (e.g., anxiety, externalizing behaviors, social skills, peer relations) at home, at school, and in the community. While such ratings outside of the clinical setting may be suggestive of generalization in that they improve outcomes in the daily context/life of the child, in most cases, these outcomes are parent reported and not confirmed with direct observation. Behavioral intervention studies rarely measured outcomes beyond the intervention period, and therefore we cannot assume that effects are maintained over time. KQ6. Treatment Components That Drive Outcomes We again did not identify any studies meeting our inclusion criteria that addressed this question. KQ7. Treatment Approaches for Children Under Age 2 at Risk for Diagnosis of ASD In the studies addressing interventions for younger children, 93 , 97 , 99 children who received behavioral interventions seemed to improve regardless of intervention type. None of the fair or good quality studies compared treatment groups to a no treatment control group. One poor quality study found positive differential effects of treatment, 97 but the level of intervention intensity varied significantly between groups, making it difficult to differentiate the effects of treatment intensity vs. type. Potential modifiers of treatment efficacy include baseline levels of object interest. 93 Most outcome measures of adaptive functioning were based upon parent report, and the effect of parental perception of treatment efficacy on perception (and report) of child functioning was generally not explored. Findings in Relation to What Is Already Known Other reviewers have also synthesized the impact of early intensive behavioral interventions. We rated three meta-analyses evaluating early intervention for children with ASD that were published since the 2011 review as good quality. 45 , 52 , 197 We also summarize two overview meta- analyses (not quality rated) addressing early intervention. 198 , 199 Findings of other reviews assessing effects of early intensive ABA-based intervention largely align with our evaluation of the strength of evidence. Specifically, other reviews have demonstrated consistent impact on cognitive and language skills with fairly large effect sizes across these somewhat overlapping syntheses. These same investigations have also noted much less consistent changes in adaptive behavior skills. Further, these reviews have highlighted similar methodological concerns as 95 noted in our current review: relatively small sample sizes, inclusion of nonrandomized studies, lack of standardized control groups, errors in interpretation of studies, and wide variations in the early intervention approaches assessed. One Cochrane review compared early intervention to treatment as usual and included RCTs or controlled trials with participants under 6 years of age at intake. 45 The review included 5 studies (one RCT) with a total of