and physical therapists who are listed on the Registry of Autism Service Providers. • Behaviour interventionists (BI) – (It is highly recommended that all BIs be supervised by a RASP professional) • Family counselling/therapy. (Family counselling/therapy providers do not need to be listed on the RASP). • Family’s administrative costs (e.g., bookkeeping/payroll, up to $100 monthly). • Applicable employer costs (e.g., employee income tax, Canada Pension Plan, Employment Insurance and Workers Compensation Board premiums, four per cent vacation pay). Autism Funding: Ages 6 – 18 may only be used for: • Behaviour Consultants/Analyst • Speech-language pathologists, occupational therapists, and physical therapists • Behaviour Interventionists (BI) (It is highly recommended that all BIs be supervised by one or all of the professionals listed above) • Life skills and social skills programs • Out-of-school learning support/tutoring (not part of the regular school program) • Specialized therapeutic activities and camps designed to address your child’s ASD • Dietary counselling from a registered dietician • Family counselling/therapy • Other interventions as recommended by a professional/ specialist (A Letter of Recommendation (LOR) written by an eligible professional/specialist is required and written pre-approval from the Autism Funding Branch is recommended) • MCFD Autism funding can be used towards independent school services if the invoice reflects out-of-school services only. In other words, MCFD autism funding can contribute to the fees that cover the costs of before and after school supports, tutoring, therapy services (e.g., speech-language therapy, behaviour consultation), and social activities provided outside of the typical educational program Appendix 3: Autism Funding – Summary of Eligible Expenses • Family’s administrative costs (e.g., bookkeeping services, up to $50 monthly or Direct Payment accountant fees up to a maximum of $600 per funding period) • Applicable employer costs (e.g., employee income tax, Canada Pension Plan, Employment Insurance and WorkSafeBC premiums, four per cent vacation pay) Up to 20 per cent of BOTH Autism Funding: Under Age 6 and Autism Funding: Ages 6-18 may be used for: • Training within B.C. • Travel costs to access autism intervention or training within B.C. (round trip greater than 80 kms) • Eligible equipment, as necessary for effective intervention, outlined in a Justification for Equipment (JFE) Form, completed by a professional/specialist. Computers and/or Touch Screen Tablets • Requests to purchase a computer or touch screen tablet must be made in writing through a JFE written by a child’s professional/specialist. • A child’s autism funding can be used to purchase one laptop OR one desktop computer; OR one touch screen tablet (e.g., an iPad OR an ipad touch) once every three years. Please note: In the Under 6 program a professional/ specialist eligible to complete a Justification For Equipment and supplies (JFE) form is defined as a RASP professional or an EIT professional employed through MCFD contracted agencies/organizations/health authorities. A professional/ specialist in the Ages 6-18 program is defined as a behaviour consultant, physical therapist, speech-language pathologist, paediatrician, psychiatrist, registered psychologist, registered psychological associate, neurologist or occupational therapist. Call 1 877 777-3530 for further