During each class, teens earn points for completing in-class activities, and for some teens, that might include earning points for participation in discussions. The points will be used to trade-in for a pizza and video- game party. The SLP lists all the teens’ names on the whiteboard in the front of the room, tracking points during every class. She knows that reinforcement comes both from the party and seeing the points that are listed by their name and how that compares to peers. It is important to display the points openly rather than tallying privately. Also, she understands that teens are sensitive to embarrassment in front of peers so she would never remove a point for inappropriate behavior. Negative reinforcement is the removal of non-preferred items, activities, or a situation which results in the likelihood of increasing a behavior. Behaviors that continue or increase due to negative reinforcement are often undesired behaviors that the student uses to escape or avoid an unpleasant circumstance. However, negative reinforcement can also be used to increase appropriate behavior as well. Classroom Example: A fifth-grade student with autism dislikes completing math problems. The teacher allows the student to “avoid” some of the “unpleasant task” by allowing the student to complete a smaller number of math problems before leaving his desk. Thus, the undesired task (more math problems) is removed after the student completes a 36 predetermined number of math problems, increasing the successful completion of some math problems. • Visual Supports are prompts that give information to the student in a visual format (e.g., pictures, words, symbols, signs) about expectations, events that will happen, and for teaching new skills. For students with autism, visual supports are not necessarily faded or removed. Classroom Examples: The first-grade teacher prepared a schedule of activities that will occur during language/arts. She used words and pictures to show the order in which they would occur. A middle school student carries a written schedule in the front of her notebook with daily activities listed that she checks off at the end of each class. • Modeling is an adult or peer demonstrating a behavior to produce an imitation of the behavior by the student. Classroom Example: A teacher introduces a new material in the classroom. The student with autism picks up the new material, looks at it, and puts it down. The teacher picks up the material and shows the student how to use it and then hands it to the student, and the student uses the material as the teacher modeled. • Instructional Prompts are procedures that aid the student in the learning process by increasing the probability of a correct student response. This allows the student to access reinforcement frequently, making it more likely that the student will learn the skill being taught. Minimizing the number of errors is important for students with autism because frequent errors can reduce motivation to participate in the learning process. The most common types of prompts are called response prompts. These are prompts