words relevant to ASD (e.g., autism, Asperger). We limited searches to the English language and literature published since the development of the 2011 review. 9 We also manually searched the reference lists of included studies and of recent narrative and systematic reviews and meta-analyses addressing ASD. We also invited TEP members to provide additional citations. Grey Literature and Hand Searching As the review focuses on behavioral interventions, we did not search for regulatory information. As noted, we hand searched the reference lists of included studies and recent reviews. Search Terms Controlled vocabulary terms served as the foundation of our search in each database (e.g., MEDLINE vocabulary terms including autistic disorder, child development disorders, pervasive), complemented by additional keyword phrases (e.g., Asperger, autism). We also limited searches to items published in English. Our searches were executed in July 2013. Appendix A provides our search terms and the yield from each database. We imported all citations into an electronic database. Process for Study Selection Inclusion and Exclusion Criteria We developed criteria for inclusion and exclusion based on the patient populations, interventions, outcome measures, and types of evidence specified in the Key Questions and in consultation with the TEP. Table 1 summarizes criteria. Table 1. Inclusion criteria Category Criteria Study population Children ages 0 – 12 with ASD or 0 – 2 considered to be at risk for ASD based on sibling status or early developmental/behavioral vulnerabilities highly suspicious of ASD Publication languages English only Admissible evidence (study design and other criteria) Admissible designs Randomized controlled trials, prospective and retrospective cohort studies, and nonrandomized controlled trials Other criteria Studies must be original research studies providing sufficient detail regarding methods and results to enable use and aggregation of the data and results Studies must have relevant population and ≥10 participants with ASD Studies must address one or more of the following for ASD: -Behavioral treatment modality -Predictors of treatment outcomes -Generalization of treatment outcomes to other contexts -Drivers of treatment outcomes Relevant outcomes must be able to be abstracted from data in the papers Data must be presented in the aggregate (vs. individual participant data) ASD = autism spectrum disorder Study Population Studies needed to provide adequate information to ensure that participants fell within the target age range. For studies with populations including individuals with ASD in our target range and over age 12, we retained the study if we could infer that at least 80 percent of the study 10 participants were in the 0 to 12 age range or if the mean age of participants did not exceed 12 years and 11 months. Similarly, for studies including individuals with ASD and those with other developmental disabilities, we retained the study if we could isolate data on those participants with ASD. Sample Size We included studies with at least 10 individuals with ASD between the ages of 0 to 12 years. Our goal was to identify and review the best evidence for assessing the efficacy and effectiveness of therapies for children with ASD,