to have restricted interests that seem typical for their age (e.g., books, celebrities, animals) and do not stand out as unusual (Halladay et al., 2015). 12 BUILDING A COLLABORATIVE TEAM Effective teams are essential to increase student opportunities for success and coordination of supports. Students with autism are often supported by multiple people and professionals in and out of school, emphasizing the need for collaborative teaming practices to pool knowledge, expertise, and resources. Combining team members’ skillsets and experiences can lead to better outcomes for students and increased competency for team members (Griffiths et al., 2021; Kunze & Machalicek, 2022). Collaboration is Key Collaboration has been defined as “a complex process built on trust, open communication, and mutual respect (relationship building), with all members focused on shared goals and responsibility with a common understanding (shared values), who are actively participating with a sense of shared responsibility (active engagement) and decision making” (Griffiths et al., 2021). Effective school teams use strategies to promote collaboration. Examples of strategies include: • Prioritizing communication and time to collaborate. • Identifying common goals and priorities (e.g., student safety and success). • Clearly defining team member roles and responsibilities. • Structuring timelines and following through on commitments. • Developing a systematic plan to ensure consistent implementation by all team members across all environments. • Regularly monitoring and sharing about student progress. • Making decisions based on student data and team member consensus. • Sharing responsibility and power among members. • Using accessible language and defining discipline-specific terminology. • Engaging students and families in the teaming process. • Focusing on student strengths. • Systematically addressing barriers to effective teaming. Team Member Areas of Expertise Each team member is important to include because of their unique perspectives and contributions to the student’s school experience. Team members have varied expertise and 13 autism experience. For a detailed description of required IEP team members, please refer to the OSDE-SES Policies and Procedures. Team members can contribute specific areas of experience and expertise to benefit students with autism. For example: • Parents/Caregivers can provide critical information about the student’s early development and medical history needed to identify students with autism and address co-occurring needs. Parents/caregivers contribute insight regarding their child’s strengths, needs, and preferences and provide context regarding the family’s culture and priorities. • Students can offer essential information about their needs and preferences when provided developmentally-appropriate opportunities to participate in decision-making. • General Education Teachers (including core and elective teachers) can implement inclusive instructional practices to provide students access to social opportunities and instruction with their grade-level peers. • Special Education Teachers can offer guidance on best practices to provide specially designed instruction for students by helping to identify, implement, and monitor appropriate accommodations, modifications, and interventions. • Peers can facilitate opportunities for learning about social behaviors by receiving training to support their classmate with autism, including talking to them and playing with them. Peers can benefit by learning about teamwork and helping others. • Paraprofessionals can support classroom teachers