Autism Spectrum Disorder: www.health.gov.bc.ca/library/publications/year/2003/ asd_standards_0318.pdf Confirmation of Diagnosis Form and Non-BCAAN (Private) Diagnosis of Autism Spectrum Disorder Form: http://gov.bc.ca/autism-forms-resources Autism Information Services BC (AIS BC): autisminfo.gov.bc.ca 8 A Parent’s Handbook: Your Guide to Autism Programs My Child Has a Diagnosis of Autism Spectrum Disorder. What Do I Do? When a child is diagnosed with ASD, it may be a difficult and stressful time for a family. Every family has their own questions and concerns after a child has been diagnosed. For many families, it is important to learn as much as possible, and to connect with other parents and professionals who can offer information and support. To help families navigate the services and supports offered for children and youth with autism in B.C., MCFD provides provincial autism information, support services, and training for families and professionals who are supporting children with ASD through the Autism Information Services (AIS BC) program. Autism Information Services BC (AIS BC) has an information support line manned by Information Officers who are able to assist families during work hours (1-844-878-4700). The AIS BC website also offers a variety of resources for families to access such as: autism basics; factors to consider after diagnosis; MCFD autism funding programs; autism interventions; and the Registry of Autism Service Providers (RASP) to locate qualified professionals. The AIS BC website also provides information on a variety of autism organizations in BC; information on some of these organizations can also be found on page 27 (see WEBLINKS below). It is important for parents to know that children and youth with ASD can benefit from an evidence-based intervention program. Research has identified interventions and approaches that are supported by evidence and proven to be effective for ASD – these are known as best practices. For more information on best practices, please contact Autism Information Services BC (AIS BC) at 1 844-878-4700 or visit the AIS BC website ( WEBLINK below) or see page 23 of this handbook. Applying for Autism Programs If your child has been diagnosed with ASD, and you wish to enrol in the Autism Funding Program, contact your local MCFD office ( WEBLINK below) to complete a funding agreement. WE B LI N K S Autism Information Services BC (AIS BC): autisminfo.gov.bc.ca MCFD Children and Youth with Support Needs offices: https://www2.gov.bc.ca/gov/search?id=3101EE7282 3047269017D08E55AF6441&q=support+needs Registry of Autism Service Providers (RASP): autisminfo.gov.bc.ca/rasp/ Accessing Autism Funding using Invoice Payment (please refer to page 32 for information on the Direct Payment method) Diagnostic assessment is completed through the BC Autism Assessment Network (BCAAN); a Private Diagnostician; or a Confirmation of Diagnosis process (see p.6) Child receives an autism spectrum disorder (ASD) diagnosis through BCAAN or the Confirmation of Diagnosis Process (Publically Funded) Family receives a BCAAN clinical outcomes form or a Confirmation of Diagnosis form Child receives an ASD diagnosis through a NON-BCAAN/Private Diagnostician or a Private Professional through the Confirmation of Diagnosis process (Privately Funded) Family brings the following documents to their meeting with the CYSN Worker: • NON-BCAAN (Private) Diagnosis form or