watched per day. Participants in the treatment group improved on standardized measures of emotion and facial recognition (effect sizes range 0.48-0.92, p<.001), while both groups improved on social peer interest (effect size=0.24, p=.01) and eye contact (effect size=0.44, p<.001). In both groups, no difference was found in gaze aversion or stereotyped behavior. This study provided little information on the demographics of the participants. This study also did not provide information on the user guide, which may be a confounding variable to the obtained findings. The authors also refer to Nonverbal IQ in one of their tables, but only administered the Block Design subtest, which does not fully measure all aspects of nonverbal IQ. 132 A fair-quality study examined the short-term outcome of a trial of a manualized Theory of Mind training program. 128 The study included 40 children (mean age=10 years) with a diagnosis of high functioning ASD and cognitive abilities within the average range (mean IQ=100.1 in the treatment group and 103.3 in the control group). The participants were randomized either to a 16-week Theory of Mind training group or a wait list control group. Participants in the treatment group improved on their conceptual theory of mind skills compared with the control group (awareness of multiple emotions, effect size=0.84, p<.05; complex emotions, effect size=1.19, p<.01), but no significant differences were found between groups on elementary theory of mind understanding, self-reported emphatic skills, or parent-reported social behavior. An additional study examined the short-term outcome of a trial of a pictorial system called thought bubble training on Theory of Mind tasks, including difficulty with false belief tests. 133 The study included 24 children (mean age=7 years) with a diagnosis of ASD. The participants were not randomized into the thought bubble intervention group (n=17) or control group (n=7) based on standardized means, but rather on preference by school staff. The two groups were comparable in terms of chronological age, verbal intelligence, semantic language skill, syntactic language ability, and nonverbal intelligence. In addition, a within-group rather than between- group statistical analysis was utilized. Within-group analyses indicated that the children in the thought bubble intervention group showed significantly higher post-training test scores on all Theory of Mind variables. These post-test gains were also maintained at three-week followup. In contrast, the children in the control group did not show any significant improvements in their pre- and post-test scores on Theory of Mind variables, nor did they show any improvements at followup. Seven children in the thought bubble intervention group and one child in the control group were not available at followup. 44 Table 8. Summary of outcomes of social skills studies Author, Year, Country Groups, N Enrollment/N Final Study Quality Age, Mean Years±SD IQ, Mean±SD Key Outcomes Group-based Social Skills Approaches Lerner et al. 2012 129 US G1: Sociodramatic Affective Relational Intervention (SDARI), 7/7 G2: Skillstreaming, 6/6 Quality: Fair G1: 10.86±1.68 G2: 11.33±1.63 NR • Study included only boys with high functioning ASD, 69% diagnosed with Asperger syndrome • Compared with G2, G1 participants decreased