with ASD, the guardianship worker contacts the local MCFD office to complete the Autism Funding Application. The CYSN Worker then confirms eligibility and initiates access to autism funding. For information on health supports available for children in care, please see the Health Supports Guide accessible through the WEBLINK below. WE B LI N K S Application Form for Autism Funding: https://www2.gov.bc.ca/gov/content/health/managing- your-health/child-behaviour-development/support-needs/ autism-spectrum-disorder/autism-funding Autism Information Services BC (AIS BC): http://autisminfo.gov.bc.ca/ Appeals or Complaints If you have a concern about the service provided by the Autism Funding Branch, or about an autism funding decision, contact the Autism Funding Branch at 1 877 777-3530. If your complaint is not resolved, request to speak with an Autism Funding Branch supervisor at 1 877 777-3530. If you have a complaint about a service provider on the RASP, please contact Autism Information Services BC (AIS BC) toll free at 1 844 878-4700 to find out more on how to initiate a complaint. Confidentiality and Your Privacy Some personal information about you and your child is required to complete a diagnosis, determine eligibility and provide ongoing services. All necessary personal information must be collected, used and disclosed in accordance the Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act (FOIPPA). The Autism Funding Branch may only release information regarding a child’s agreement to the Agreement Signatory (i.e., the parent/legal guardian who signed the autism agreement). If you wish for another person to access this information, please contact the Autism Funding Branch and ask for a Release of Information Form. WE B LI N K S Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act: www.bclaws.ca/Recon/document/ID/freeside/96165_00 20 A Parent’s Handbook: Your Guide to Autism Programs Who Will Be Working with My Child? Depending on the needs of your child, his or her therapy team may include: • Behavior Analyst (BA) and Behaviour Consultant (BC) : BAs and BCs are professionals who conduct assessments, develop an individualized Behavior Plan of Intervention (BPI), train parents and interventionists, and monitor and oversee treatment programs on an on-going basis. Treatment programs can cover a wide range of domains such as verbal behaviour, social skills, daily living skills, problem behaviours, etc. BAs and BCs who are listed on the British Columbia Registry of Autism Service Providers (RASP) have demonstrated the necessary education and experience in the field of Applied Behaviour Analysis (ABA) and autism. The difference between a BC and a BA is that a BA (Behaviour Analyst) has received the certification of “Board Certified Behaviour Analyst” (BCBA) through the Behaviour Analyst Certification Board (BACB). BAs and BCs may also conduct Functional Behavior Assessments (FBAs) and design support plans for problem behaviour(s) as needed. • Speech-Language Pathologist (SLP) : An S-LP is a registered professional who works with people who have problems with communication. Communication includes both understanding and using speech, language, written language, non-verbal communication, and augmentative and alternative communication technology. An S-LP can provide assessment, diagnosis, consultation, and intervention/treatment. An S-LP can also provide expertise in the area of oral motor skills