using methods described in the following section to conduct a systematic review of published literature. We anticipate that the report will be of value to clinicians who treat children with ASD, who can use the report to assess the evidence for different treatment strategies. In addition, this review will be of use to the National Institutes of Health, U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, and the Health Resources and Services Administration–all of which have offices or bureaus devoted to child health issues and who may use the report to compare treatments and determine priorities for funding. This report can bring practitioners up to date about the current state of evidence related to behavioral interventions, and it provides an assessment of the quality of studies that aim to determine the outcomes of therapeutic options for the management of ASD. It will be of interest to families affected by ASD because of the recurring need for families and their health care providers to make the best possible decisions among numerous options. We also anticipate it will be of use to private sector organizations concerned with ASD; the report can inform such organizations’ understanding of the effectiveness of treatments and the amount and quality of evidence available. Researchers can obtain a concise analysis of the current state of knowledge related to behavioral interventions for ASD. They will be poised to pursue further investigations that are needed to understand best approaches to behavioral therapies for children with ASD. 7 Methods Topic Development and Refinement The 2011 report was nominated by Autism Speaks in a public process. We drafted the initial Key Questions and analytic framework and refined them with input from key informants and a focus group of family members of children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD). After review from the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ), the questions and framework were posted to a public Web site. After reviewing the public commentary, we drafted final Key Questions and submitted them to AHRQ for review. The need for an update of that report was documented through an ongoing update assessment project at AHRQ. For the current update, we identified technical experts on the topic of ASD in children to provide input during the project. Technical Expert Panel (TEP) members represented the clinical and research communities from a range of perspectives. TEP members included both researchers and clinicians with expertise in behavioral, social, and psychological issues. To ensure robust, scientifically relevant work, we called on the TEP to provide reactions to work in progress. TEP members participated in conference calls and discussions through email to: • Refine the analytic framework and Key Questions to ensure that they continued to represent important decisional dilemmas; • Discuss the preliminary assessment of the literature, including inclusion/exclusion criteria; • Ensure that we had captured seminal studies addressing interventions for children with ASD. After discussions with the TEP and our initial scan of the literature, we retained all of the Key Questions