or early developmental/behavioral vulnerabilities highly suspicious of ASD Publication language English only Admissible evidence (study design and other criteria) Admissible designs Randomized controlled trials, prospective and retrospective cohort studies, and nonrandomized controlled trials Other criteria Studies must be original research studies providing sufficient detail regarding methods and results to enable use and aggregation of the data and results. Studies must have relevant population and ≥10 participants with ASD . Studies must address 1 or more of the following for ASD: -Behavioral treatment modality -Predictors of treatment outcomes -Generalization of treatment outcomes to other contexts -Drivers of treatment outcomes Relevant outcomes must be able to be abstracted from data in the papers. Data must be presented in the aggregate (vs. individual participant data). ASD = autism spectrum disorder Study Selection Two reviewers independently assessed each abstract identified for potential inclusion using an abstract review form with questions stemming from our selection criteria. If one reviewer concluded that the article could be eligible for the review based on the abstract, we retained it for full-text assessment. Two reviewers independently assessed the full text of each included study using a similar standardized form. Disagreements between reviewers were resolved by a third- party adjudicator. The group of abstract and full-text reviewers included expert clinicians and researchers and health services researchers; abstract and full-text review forms are in Appendix B of the full report. Data Extraction We extracted data from included studies into evidence tables that report study design, descriptions of the study populations (for applicability), description of the intervention, and baseline and outcome data on constructs of interest. Data were initially extracted by one team member and reviewed for accuracy by a second. The final evidence tables are presented in their entirety in Appendix C of the full report. For studies that were reported in the 2011 review and have followup data reported here, the evidence table for the original studies can be found in the 2011 report. 9 Quality Assessment We used the approach to assessing the quality of individual studies developed for the 2011 review and following methods outlined in the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality Effective Health Care Program’s “Methods Guide for Effectiveness and Comparative Effectiveness Reviews .” 10 We assessed the quality of studies in domains including study design, participant ascertainment, diagnostic approach, and outcome measurement using specific questions to evaluate a study’s conduct. We rated each domain individually and combined them ES-5 for an overall quality level, as described in the full report. Three levels were possible: good, fair, and poor. Data Synthesis We summarized all data qualitatively using evidence tables. We focused on outcomes related to core ASD symptoms (impairments in communication and social interaction and restricted/repetitive behaviors and interests); outcomes including IQ and adaptive behavior; and key symptoms in studies of interventions targeting conditions commonly associated with ASD (e.g., anxiety). For the update, we describe new comparative studies published since the original report, and we make our conclusions and assess the strength of evidence on the