When examining combined groups, two key effects emerged. First, total intervention hours were 33 associated with reduced restrictive and repetitive behavior and nonsocial orienting and improved DQ and vocabulary comprehension. Second, children younger than 24 months showed greater increases in DQ scores (effect size=-1.20, p=.002). A fair quality RCT from Canada compared a DIR-based model, MEHRIT (Milton and Ethel Harris Research Initiative Treatment Program), (n=25; mean age=42.52 months, SD=8.76) to community care-as-usual (n=26; mean age=46.38 months, SD=8.29). 107 Data were collected 12 months into an ongoing 24-month treatment course. MEHRIT was administered by trained occupational therapists and speech-language pathologists who worked with participants’ parents for two hours per week. Community intervention included no more than 15 hours per week of ABA, speech and occupational therapy, social skills groups, and alternative treatments (mean intervention hours: 3.9 per week). Post-treatment, the MEHRIT group showed significantly more initiation of joint attention (p<.001), involvement in activities (p<.01), and attention to activities (p<.05). They also showed more enjoyment in interaction, but this group difference was also present at baseline (p<.05). Both groups showed significantly improved language skills adjusted for developmental quotients, with no significant between-groups effects (effect sizes of .451 for MEHRIT and .915 for community treatment). Another fair quality RCT from Asia examined DIR/Floortime (n=15) compared with center- based ABA (n=16). 92 Groups were stratified based on age (24-47 months, 28-72 months) and ASD severity, based upon CARS scores. Both groups continued to receive treatment-as-usual, including enrollment in preschool programs and community-based services (such as speech or behavioral therapies.) Relative to the center-based group, the DIR/Floortime group showed significant improvement on the Functional Emotional Assessment Scale (p<.05) and ASD symptoms as rated by the CARS (2.9 vs. .08, p<.01). Parents in the DIR/Floortime group also rated their children as showing significant improvements in emotional development (p<.01). A fourth fair quality RCT comparing parent training plus special education preschool to special education preschool alone reported no between-group differences on language development after 12 months of intervention, though language skills within both groups improved over time. 94 Three poor quality studies, two European prospective cohort studies 97 , 108 and a crossover RCT from China, 99 compared parent training to lower intensity supportive interventions. Mean ages ranged from 25.33-33.6 months. Both involved home visits and working with children and parents. A lower intensity treatment model, Autism-1-2-3, compared two groups that received the same series of 10 half-hour child- and parent-training sessions, with one group having a lagged start date and serving as a control. It did not yield group differences on ASD symptoms, language skills, or parent stress scores. 99 Another lower intensity model, the Barnet Early Autism Model (BEAM), incorporated aspects of ABA, TEACCH, PECS, and other occupational and speech-language interventions. It provided an average of 6.4 hours of home-based intervention per week over ten months. Participants were compared with a care-as-usual group and were not randomly assigned. Relative to the control group, BEAM recipients improved significantly more in adaptive behavior (p<.001) and receptive language