of voice, and facial expression. Techniques included extended time, repeated practice, conceptual explanations, role play, and use of social dilemmas. Participants were also assigned a different partner each week to encourage social interaction and cooperation. Sibling participants were not given any specific training or instruction other than what was provided as part of the treatment sessions. Homework tasks were given to facilitate generalization. Participants in the active treatment groups demonstrated significant improvement in identification of nonverbal cues to identify emotions compared with the waitlist control group (effect size=0.47, p<.001). While the ability to identify social cues was maintained by the participants in the active treatment groups, no increase in skills was demonstrated at 3-months post-intervention. Parents in all groups rated socials skills for both children with ASD and siblings as improved over time (effect size=0.55, p<.001). No difference in teacher report of social skills for target participants or siblings was demonstrated. Three RCTs, one of good and two of fair quality, addressed interventions targeting emotion recognition in children with ASD. 123 , 128 , 132 Two studies used specialized DVDs to demonstrate emotions and one used a manualized, group-based intervention focused on Theory of Mind training, which includes recognizing emotions, understanding differences between fantasy and reality, perspective taking, and reasoning about other people’s mental states. Two RCTs conducted in Australia (one good quality 123 and one fair 132 ) assessed the outcome of The Transporters DVD series as an intervention for emotion recognition. The first RCT examined changes in emotion recognition and generalization of newly acquired skills to improvements in social perception skills over a 3-month period. The study included 55 children with ASD between the ages of 4 and 7 randomly assigned to view either the Transporters DVD series or the control DVD series (Thomas the Tank Engine) for four weeks (15 minutes per day in their home setting). Parents were also provided with a diary to record the number of hours watched per day. Compared with control participants, participants in the treatment group improved in emotion identification and matching of emotions (anger only) immediately following the intervention, with improvements maintained 3-months post-intervention. Gains were also seen in the treatment group 3-months post-intervention for identification of happiness and emotion recognition within situations. In both groups, no difference was found in affect recognition, theory of mind, or social skills immediately following the intervention or at the maintenance phase. Long-term improvements in identification of happiness expressions were associated with greater ADOS severity, as was matching of emotions overall and of sadness specifically. Age was correlated with identification of fear expressions, affect recognition, and the mind reading desire-based task. Verbal IQ was also associated with some short term improvements. 123 43 A second, 3-week RCT comparing The Transporters DVD with the control series included 25 children with PDD between the ages of 4 and 8. Parents were also provided with a user guide to facilitate their child’s participation in watching the episodes as well as logbook to record the number of sessions