parental stress and child communication. In the video group, parents received an interactive instructional DVD called “Being Responsive: You and Your Child with Autism.” They independently completed video lessons and accompanying worksheets. Followup assessments were conducted 3 months after treatment finished. All outcomes were based on parent report. Children in the professionally led arm showed significantly greater improvement in social communication than children in the video-based arm, regardless of baseline scores. Parents in the professionally led group also reported reduced child-related stress relative to parents in the video group, with fathers reporting more stress than mothers in both groups. Parents in the professionally led group with low baseline self-efficacy reported higher followup self-efficacy levels than parents in the video arm. 100 The second good quality prospective cohort study was conducted in Italy and reported in two papers. 101 , 102 It compared staff- and parent-led ABA-based intervention ( n=24, 92% male; mean age=55.67±17.63 months) to eclectic community-based therapy (n=20, 95% male; mean age=41.94±13.07 months). Group assignments were not random and were based upon parental preference. Children were excluded based on the presence of major medical issues. In the parent training group, children alternated between one week (average of 25 hours) of therapist-led center-based intervention (discrete trial training, incidental teaching, natural environment teaching) and 3 weeks (average of 14 hours/week) of parent-led home intervention. Treatment focused on individual skills, problem behaviors, and facilitated play and social interactions. In the eclectic group, children received in-home developmental and cognitive behavioral treatments (approximately 12 hours/week) with minimal parent involvement. Treatment goals were based upon staff expertise and preferences. Compared with the eclectic group, children in the parent training arm showed a significant decrease in ASD symptom severity and increases in language production and mental development. The parents of children in the eclectic group reported that their children showed improved socialization and motor skills, but this was not confirmed by behavioral observation. In the parent training group, older children achieved better adaptive behavior outcomes; younger children made more gains in early language comprehension and production. Children who gained more language comprehension had higher adaptive behavior scores pre-treatment. Pre- treatment language comprehension predicted post-treatment language production. In the eclectic group, higher pre-treatment mental development state and early language skills predicted better outcome on parent-reported adaptive behaviors. Initial higher adaptive behaviors predicted better 31 post-treatment early language comprehension. In both groups, child outcomes on early language skills, mental developmental state, and adaptive behaviors were significantly influenced by self- reported parental stress, children’s ability to respond correctly to prompts, the number and difficulty of treatment targets, and children’s problem behaviors in sessions. Children who were perceived by their parents as more difficult had less improvement in ASD severity. 101 , 102 Two studies compared interventions focused on increasing parental responsivity. A good quality RCT from Europe (reported in two papers) 72 , 105 compared treatment-as-usual + a manualized, communication-focused parent training (n=14, median age 48 months) to treatment- as-usual alone (n=14, median age=51 months) over 12 months. The