(LEA), online resources, and local autism organizations. Please refer to the Resources section in the appendix of this handbook for more information. 15 Relevant training content for educators should include an understanding of autism, general behavior management strategies, and evidence-based teaching procedures. Training for educators should also include the following opportunities to build competence with evidenced based-techniques for behavior management and instruction: • Observe a more experienced educator implementing specific techniques. • Practice specific techniques modeled by a more experienced educator. • Demonstrate and receive feedback on the use of specific techniques. • Participate in frequent check-ins until educator is confidently and competently implementing specific techniques. Case Study The following case study is an example of collaborative teaming resulting in improved student outcomes. Michael is a sixth-grade student who was identified with autism at age four. He developed advanced vocabulary at a young age, and his intellectual functioning has been estimated as above average. Michael currently uses fluent verbal communication with difficulties initiating and sustaining back-and-forth conversations, especially on topics unrelated to his interests. He often struggles to notice social cues and misinterprets others’ emotions. Michael has struggled to adapt to middle school related to daily transitions across teachers and classroom expectations. Six weeks into the school year, Michael has become more argumentative with his teachers and peers, ripped up his assignments, and left the classroom without permission. Michael’s parents are discouraged and upset by his seemingly sudden increase in behavioral difficulties at school, and they have noticed more arguing and withdrawal at home. They are feeling concerned middle school may not be a good fit for him. Before the transition to middle school, Michael was reported to be thriving, with excellent academic progress and positive teacher relationships. Current members of Michael’s educational team include: parents, general education teachers (math, science, reading, social studies, art, music), special education teacher (IEP teacher of record), school psychologist, speech language pathologist, sixth grade principal and counselor, and private social skills group leader. Michael previously received private applied behavior analysis, and he currently attends a private social skills group to provide opportunities to practice peer interaction skills in a supportive setting. Michael receives weekly speech therapy at school to support his development of social pragmatic language skills. During the first regularly scheduled grade-level staff meeting (attended by the sixth-grade principal, sixth-grade counselor, general education teachers, special 16 education teacher, and school psychologist), Michael’s science teacher shared with the team about challenges Michael has experienced in the classroom. Other teachers commented on similar difficulties including arguing with peers, refusing to complete assignments, and choosing to doodle or read instead of completing assigned work. Michael has left the classroom several times, including leaving and staying in the bathroom or hallway without asking or letting his teacher know. During the grade-level staff meeting, the team discussed possible supportive strategies (e.g., the counselor mentioned she has been working to build a relationship with Michael by talking with him a few minutes at the end of each school day