quality of caregiver participation, and parent-rated adherence as predictors of outcomes at the 12-month followup. 150 Greater caregiver quality of involvement predicted increased joint engagement (p<.05) but not other play skills or engagement outcomes. Parent-rated adherence or competence did not predict changes in any outcome. Number of hours of other intervention similarly did not predict any outcomes. 150 Another RCT compared a 12-week intervention targeting parental responsiveness to children’s playtime communication compared with a control group that received some parental education about developmental and educational needs. 156 Investigators also explored relationships among maternal synchronization (responsiveness to child communications) and long-term (12 months post-intervention) child language outcomes. Maternal synchronization was moderated by baseline maternal insightfulness (p<.05) and synchronization was greater in those mothers rated as insightful compared with non-insightful (effect size=0.31, p<.05). The link between short-term gain in maternal synchronization and long-term language (12 months post- treatment) gains was not moderated by maternal insightfulness, nor did initial language skills moderate the link between gains in maternal synchronization after 12 weeks and long term gains in expressive language. 156 Intervention-Related Factors Several studies of early intensive behavioral and developmental approaches evaluated potential effects associated with characteristics of the interventions themselves. In an RCT evaluating the LEAP program (full training compared with training manuals only), the students of teachers rated as having better intervention fidelity showed better outcomes on all measures. 84 In other studies assessing ABA-based early intervention, where examined, total hours of intervention per week were not associated with cognitive or adaptive outcomes, although hours were similar across intervention groups within each study (e.g., comparing half-day programs to other half-day programs). 76-78 , 81-83 In a retrospective cohort study, 86 outcomes were related to age at enrollment, treatment duration, and higher baseline adaptive scores, with duration becoming nonsignificant after accounting for group membership (correlation of duration, group=.57, 74 p<.01). A significant interaction emerged between age at enrollment and group membership, with younger starting age influencing outcomes for the treatment group but not control. 86 In a study comparing 1:1 home-based ABA early intervention (both university-provided and privately-provided) to community-based treatment-as-usual, IQ remained stable for children in the community-based group and significantly declined for children who received university- provided ABA intervention (effect size=.49). This result is confounded by nonrandom assignment and the fact that at baseline, the university-based group had higher levels of ASD symptoms, lower levels of adaptive behavior, and fewer total intervention hours. 79 , 80 Finally, in a prospective cohort study, hours of intervention did not correlate with outcomes. 77 KQ3. Treatment Phase Changes That Predict Outcomes No studies were identified that provided data on changes early in treatment that predicted outcomes. KQ4. Treatment Effects That Predict Long-Term Outcomes Few studies assess end-of-treatment effects that may predict long-term outcomes. Several early intensive behavioral and developmental interventions change measures over the course of very lengthy treatments, but such outcomes usually have not been assessed beyond treatment windows. One family of studies 140 , 141 , 148 , 149 attempted to