April 2021 A Parent’s Handbook: Your Guide to Autism Programs © 2021 The Province of British Columbia. All rights reserved. Table of Contents Introduction 1 Services and Supports for Children and Youth with Support Needs and Their Families 1 What is Autism Spectrum Disorder? 2 Early Indicators of Autism Spectrum Disorder 3 What to Do if You Think Your Child May Have Autism 4 What Causes Autism Spectrum Disorder? 5 Is There a Cure? 5 Assessment and Diagnosis 6 British Columbia Autism Assessment Network (BCAAN) 6 Non-BCAAN (Private) Assessment and Diagnosis 6 Moving to B.C. from Another Province 6 Moving to B.C. from Another Country 6 My Child Has a Diagnosis of Autism Spectrum Disorder. What Do I Do? 8 Applying for Autism Programs 8 Accessing Autism Funding using Invoice Payment 9 Autism Funding: Under Age 6 10 Setting Up an Autism Intervention Program for Your Child Under 6 13 Autism Funding: Ages 6 - 18 14 Accessing Autism Programs 16 Funding Options 17 Invoice Payment 17 Direct Payment (For Children 12 and Over) 17 Eligibility Requirements for Direct Payment 18 Eligible Siblings Ages 6-12 18 Frequently Used Acronyms ASD : Autism Spectrum Disorder MCFD : Ministry of Children and Family Development or the ministry Autism Funding Programs and Parent Responsibilities 19 Foster Parents and Children In Care 20 Appeals or Complaints 20 Confidentiality and Your Privacy 20 Tips For Parents 21 How Do I Know My Child is Receiving Quality Intervention? 23 What is a Behaviour Plan of Intervention (BPI)? 25 Contact Us 26 Appendix 1 : B.C. Service and Autism Organizations 27 Appendix 2: Behaviour Plan of Intervention 28 Appendix 3: Autism Funding – Summary of Eligible Expenses 30 Appendix 4: Autism Funding – Summary of Ineligible Expenses 31 Appendix 5: Steps to Access Funding Through Direct Payment 32 Information for Service Providers 35 Invoicing and Payment 37 Notes 41 1 WE B LI N K MCFD Support Needs Services Website. https://www2.gov.bc.ca/gov/content/ health/managing-your-health/ child-behaviour-development/support-needs Introduction This handbook is for parents and caregivers of children and youth who may have, or have been diagnosed with, Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD). It provides information on ASD, intervention, and programs available for children and youth with ASD and their families. The Ministries of Children and Family Development (MCFD), Education and Health work closely to coordinate assessment, diagnosis, intervention and support services for children and youth with ASD and their families. Services and Supports for Children and Youth with Support Needs and Their Families In addition to the autism programs described on pages 10-15, MCFD provides a range of programs for children and youth with support needs and their families. These include: • Aboriginal Infant Development Program • Aboriginal Supported Child Development • At Home Program (medical and respite) • Community Brain Injury Program • Early Intervention Therapies • Infant Development Program • Key Worker and Parent Support • Nursing Support Services • Provincial Outreach and Professional Supports • Provincial Services for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing • School-Aged Therapies • Supported