help • Understanding rights and responsibilities • Using available resources It is critical for young autistic adults to know how to advocate for themselves to ensure that they know how to get the support and services they need as well as the services that they want. The individual must be able to identify that there is an obstacle or difficulty and then know how to seek assistance to have the issue resolved. It is also critical that the student is aware that they are autistic and to understand that autism has provided them with strengths and certain challenges. Decision making is another important skill to teach. Decision making can range from selecting what clothes to wear and making their own schedules, to more advanced decision making such as what should be discussed at IEP meetings. Components of decision making important to teach include clearly defining the decision, considering pros and cons, and learning from the outcomes. Autistic adults should be given skills and opportunities to make important decisions that impact their quality of life, including the right to choose and refuse daily activities (Bannerman et al., 1990). Person-Centered Planning Person-centered planning is an integral part of transition planning. (Please see the Resources section in the appendix of this handbook.) Many methods of person-centered planning are available; however, all methods have the following characteristics: • Discussing who the student is, including their strengths, challenges, interests, goals, and preferences • Bringing together the student with different stakeholders in their life • Developing an action plan for achieving the student’s vision for their future Developing Independent Living Skills Skills that foster independence are of utmost importance. Autistic students should begin to develop these skills at an early age and build upon them as they grow. Some ways to build independent living skills are: • Strengthening Communication. If the student struggles with spoken language, consider Alternative/Augmentative Communication (AAC) and visual supports. 64 These can include picture exchange communication systems (PECS), speech output devices (such as an iPad), and sign language. • Visual Schedules. Help the student to transition from activity to activity with more independence and provide practice for decision making. • Self-Care Skills. Activities of daily living should be part of the student’s daily routine. • Asking for a Break. The student needs a mechanism to ask for a break (verbally, communication device, picture). Provide a quiet area for the student to go when feeling overwhelmed. Knowing how to ask for a break allows the student to have some control over their environment and helps them to communicate a need in a socially acceptable manner. • Household/School Chores. Completing chores can teach responsibility and give students useful skills for adult life. These activities may need to be broken down into smaller steps (task analysis). Modeling the steps or providing prompts will help the student learn, especially if they are having difficulty at first. • Money Skills. Learning how to use money is important so the student can become more independent in the community.