Careful planning to prepare the student for transition to adulthood is essential to increase independence and quality of life. Because many autistic students benefit from advanced preparation and the establishment of new routines, this often requires that the student, family, and the school begin to plan earlier than is typically done for other students with disabilities to ease the transition and increase the likelihood of success. Autistic students may benefit from participating in or contributing to IEP meetings prior to eighth grade to familiarize them with what to expect. Student participation can include observing their IEP meeting (in- person or by video), sharing their goals, giving information about themselves, or suggesting accommodations and supports. Autistic students can also communicate information during IEP meetings in different ways. For example, some students may feel more comfortable writing down information or making a video recording ahead of time, rather than speaking in front of a group. For more recommendations on how to involve autistic students in their IEP process, refer to the Resources section. 60 Addressing academic skills during elementary, middle, and high school should not be the only educational focus for autistic students. Other areas of development that will contribute to preparing the autistic student to adjust to life more easily after public school include skills that target social communication, self-advocacy, flexibility, time management, stamina, independent work completion, and teamwork. Therefore, addressing these skills as needed should be an integral part of the instructional program for autistic students. In Oklahoma, transition services must be in effect before the beginning of the student’s ninth grade year or before age 15, whichever comes first. This means that the student will be invited to the IEP meeting and the IEP team will address transition planning at age 14 or during the student’s 8 th grade year, whichever comes first. However, the IEP team can determine that it is appropriate that transition planning begin earlier than is required. For specific transition requirements for all students with disabilities in Oklahoma, refer to the OSDE-SES Policies and Procedures. In addition, technical assistance is provided in the Oklahoma Secondary Transition Education Handbook . The Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) makes available a free appropriate public education (FAPE) to eligible students with disabilities. For students who receive a standard high school diploma FAPE ends when this diploma is conferred. However, students who are taught to alternate academic achievement standards and participate in the Oklahoma Alternate Achievement Program (OAAP), are not eligible for a standard diploma but can receive an alternate high school diploma upon earning appropriate credits. If the student has not turned 22 on or before September 1, the student will be offered continued enrollment following graduation with an alternate diploma and the district will continue to provide a FAPE through the school year in which they turn 22. The student can attend the same length of day and week as students without a disability. However, as with any student with a disability, the IEP Team may determine