room or counselor’s office. The team discussed how Michael performs best when provided frequent positive feedback on his successes rather than overemphasizing his challenging behaviors. Michael’s parents shared they are also working at home to increase rates of positive reinforcement as recommended by the social skills group leader. After discussion, all team members agreed to implement the current plan and reconvene in one month to review progress. The school psychologist, speech language pathologist, and special education teacher provided general education and elective teachers with a brief training and checklist to ensure consistent use of the visual supports and safety plan across classroom settings. The team agreed to monitor progress with continued data collection on the frequency of Michael’s challenging behaviors and the teachers’ consistency of implementation. At the one-month checkpoint, data reflected consistent implementation by Michael’s teachers with improvements in his behavior and participation with assignments. Michael learned to successfully request breaks when needed. Michael’s parents expressed feelings of appreciation and felt reassured by the positive behavioral support strategies being used. Michael continued to have intermittent difficulties but showed a significant decrease in the frequency of leaving the classroom without permission, and an increase in his participation with assignments. Another progress review was scheduled to occur in two months with ongoing communication among team members. 18 BEST PRACTICES FOR IDENTIFYING AUTISM The Importance of Early Identification Research shows early identification and intervention for children with autism are associated with long-term positive outcomes and skill development. During early development, a child’s brain is more “plastic” or changeable than at older ages. Interventions during the early developmental period have been shown to be effective and can help promote long-term success for children with autism as they grow. Early identification can also be associated with less parental stress. It is recommended children begin intervention as soon as they are identified with autism or show indicators of possible autism, which can significantly improve their quality of life as well as that of their families. Note: The Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has more information on typical development and possible signs of ASD listed by age, from two months to five years, on their Learn the Signs. Act Early. website . Early screening and diagnosis for autism is recommended. For many children, autism can be reliably diagnosed in toddlers who are younger than 24 months old. For other children, signs of autism may not be present until between 24 and 36 months old, making repeated screening an important part of early diagnosis. Screening for autism can also occur later on in life, or whenever the question of autism is raised. Children who are showing possible signs of autism based on screening results should be referred for a comprehensive evaluation with a provider who specializes in autism assessment (Ozonoff et al., 2015). While screening tools play an important part in autism identification and can be part of a comprehensive evaluation, they are not considered sufficient for making a diagnosis of ASD or ruling out