a thumbs up Student is more likely to start work quickly when asked (increase in positive behavior) Student fiddles with paper and looks out the window Teacher Reprimands Student Student argues and delays work (decrease in positive behavior) Teacher praises other students for "getting to work right away" Student wants same recognition and starts future assignments quickly (increase in positive behavior 48 to work right away.” Column four includes the result or outcome of the event. When the teacher smiles and gives a thumbs up after the student begins working right away, the student is more likely to start work quickly when asked, producing an increase in positive behavior. When the teacher reprimands the student after the student fiddles with paper and looks out the window, the student argues and delays work, producing a decrease in positive behavior. When the teacher praises other students for “getting to work right away” after the student fiddles with paper and looks out the window, the student wants the same recognition and starts future assignments quickly, producing an increase in positive behavior. 49 Other Considerations to Ensure Instruction is Effective Understanding how to arrange instructional interactions using the ABC model is a necessary component to the effective delivery of evidence-based practices (EBPs). However, there are also other considerations when planning instruction to improve effectiveness. The strategies below are particularly relevant for students with autism because the motivation to learn is often not the same as it is for other students (e.g., adult praise or recognition, mastery). The first step to ensure instruction results in positive outcomes is to consider not only how we teach, but also what we choose to teach. It is important to select skills that prioritize independence, quality of life, and capitalize on student’s strengths and preferences. Selection of Target Behaviors The skill level of students with autism will fall somewhere along a continuum of total dependence to total independence. Ideally, all students would perform independently on all the skills necessary to participate fully in their communities. This requires the educational team to prioritize those behaviors that will maximize adaptive performance and participation. So, whenever possible, prioritize behaviors that will yield the greatest amount of autonomy and independence. An example of a skill or behavior that promotes autonomy is the ability to communicate wants and needs. If a student with autism does not have a functional communication system (i.e., verbal, augmentative, gestural), teaching the student to acquire a communication system and use it effectively should be prioritized. Families and students should actively participate in selecting valued skills and behaviors. Actively involving the family and student to the greatest extent possible in prioritizing skills will likely improve motivation and commitment to achieve mastery of skills. For example, a student with autism values having friends, but lacks the skills to make and keep friendships. Prioritizing social skills to assist in making friends will reflect the student’s values and will likely help motivate the student to learn skills necessary to make and keep friends.