: $10 – $40 per hour $15 to 20 per hour is common. Service providers’ rates may vary from these guidelines. WE B LI N K S For more information on the professionals that your child’s team may include, go to: Behaviour Analyst: https://www.bacb.com/ and https://bc-aba.org/ Speech-Language Pathologist: http://www.cshhpbc.org/ ; and http://www.bcaslpa.ca/ Occupational Therapist: https://caot.ca/ Physical Therapist: http://cptbc.org/ ; and http://bcphysio.org/ 22 A Parent’s Handbook: Your Guide to Autism Programs How Do I Know My Child is Receiving Quality Intervention? MCFD requires that interventions and programs for children under age six be based on best practices. “Best practices” refers to interventions and approaches that are supported by research evidence and proven to be effective. It is highly recommended that these best practices be used for children over age six. Best Practices for Autism Intervention • Development of an individualized behaviour plan of intervention with a multidisciplinary focus that is based on a curriculum that emphasizes: academics, communication, social/play skills, emotional/self regulation, motor/sensory functioning, independence/life skills • Intensive one-to-one (at least initially) intervention at home, in preschool/school and in a variety of community settings on a year-round basis • Programs must be developed by professionals who are well trained and have demonstrated qualifications and experience in the field of autism. • Program plans should be regularly monitored and evaluated by professionals to ensure that progress is continually being made by the child. If progress is not being made, program plans need to be adjusted accordingly. • Motivating materials and activities should be used to increase child engagement (e.g., understand what motivates each child and use these motivators to help teach new, positive behaviours). • Environmental rearrangement and visual supports can be used to promote the learning of new desired behaviours – (e.g., deceasing the clutter in an environment or using visual schedules; choice boards; or Augmentative and Alternative Communication (AAC) devices, etc.). • Parents, family members, and caregivers should be highly involved in program planning to ensure that goals will improve quality of life. • Parents, family members and caregivers should receive training in intervention strategies so that they can be involved in providing intervention as much as possible. • There should be high levels of predictability and routine • Intervention should focus on highly supportive, structured teaching methods, based on the principles of applied behaviour analysis (ABA – See Definition on page 24), that incorporate a variety of strategies to help your child acquire, generalize and maintain new skills • Intervention should take place in both structured settings and more natural environments. • Problem behaviours should be addressed with Positive Behaviour Support (PBS) strategies (Please refer to definition on page 24) • Professionals from a wide variety of backgrounds (e.g., Behaviour Analysts/ Consultant, Speech - Language Pathologist, Occupational Therapist, Physical Therapist, medical personnel, etc.) should be brought together to work in collaboration with the family in a positive manner. • Intervention should include regular, planned opportunities to interact with typically developing peers who are the same age. • There should