criteria. Eight of these studies report followup data to papers included in the 2011 review of therapies for children with ASD. The 65 new studies described in this update to add to the conclusions of the original report comprise 48 randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and 17 nonrandomized trials or cohort studies. The full report includes detailed references. Appendix E of the full report includes a list of all studies excluded at the abstract and full-text review stages. KQ 1. Effects of Behavioral Interventions on Core and Commonly Associated Symptoms in Children With ASD Studies of Early Intensive Behavioral and Developmental Interventions We located 37 papers comprising 25 unique studies addressing early intensive behavioral and developmental interventions. The studies included five RCTs of good quality, six of fair quality , and one of poor quality. Individual studies using intensive University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA)/Lovaas-based interventions, the Early Start Denver Model ( ESDM), the Learning Experiences and Alternate Program for Preschoolers and their Parents (LEAP) program, and eclectic variants reported improvements in outcomes for young children. Improvements were most often seen in cognitive abilities and language acquisition, with less robust and consistent improvements seen in adaptive skills, core ASD symptom severity, and social functioning. Young children receiving high-intensity applied behavior analysis (ABA)-based interventions over extended timeframes (i.e., 8 months–2 years) displayed improvement in cognitive functioning and language skills relative to community controls (Table B). However, the magnitude of these effects varied across studies. This variation may reflect subgroups showing differential responses to particular interventions. Intervention response is likely moderated by both treatment and child factors, but exactly how these moderators function is not clear. Despite multiple studies of early intensive treatments, intervention approaches still vary substantially, which makes it difficult to tease apart what these unique treatment and child factors may be. Further, the long-term impact of these early skill improvements is not yet clear, and many studies did not follow children beyond late preschool or early school years. Studies of high-intensity early intervention services also demonstrated improvements in children’s early adaptive behavior skills, but these improvements were more variable than those found for early cognitive and language skills. Treatment effects were not consistently maintained over followup assessments across studies. Many studies measured different adaptive behavior domains (creating within-scale variability), and some evidence suggests that adaptive behavior ES-7 changes may be contingent on baseline child characteristics, such as cognitive/language skills and ASD severity. Evidence for the impact of early intensive intervention on core ASD symptoms is limited and mixed. Children’s symptom severity often decreased during treatment, but these improvements often did not differ from those of children in control groups. Better quality studies reported positive effects of intervention on symptom severity, but multiple lower quality studies did not. Since our previous review, there have been substantially more studies of well-controlled low- intensity interventions that provide parent training in bolstering social communication skills. Although parent training programs modified parenting behaviors during interactions, data were more limited about their ability to improve broad