the home setting. G-2 Table G-3. Applicability of studies of interventions addressing conditions commonly associated with ASD Domain Description of applicability of evidence Population Studies included children ages 4-16 with ADOS-confirmed ASD diagnosis and often with primary anxiety diagnosis. Most studies required IQ greater than 70 with children falling in the average range. Children were recruited from a range of sources including outpatient psychiatry clinics, schools, pediatrician’s offices, parent and family support groups, university medical clinics and research centers. Children were mostly male, and primarily Caucasian in studies conducted within the US. Intervention Interventions consisted of cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) typically provided on a weekly basis for 60-90 minutes over a period of four months although treat although treatment times ranged from 7 to 32 weeks. Interventions were typically manualized and included both children and parents. One study did not examine CBT rather examined parent training as an augmentation to risperidone. Comparators Most studies compared CBT to either wait list or treatment as usual controls, and two studies compared CBT to social skills therapies The study examining parent training augmentation compared participants on risperidone with parent training to those on risperidone without parent training. Outcomes Studies primarily targeted anxiety symptoms therefore the outcome measures included various measures of anxiety both at end of intervention and at a follow-up interval of 3 months to one year following termination of intervention. Measures of anxiety most commonly included the Anxiety Disorders Interview Schedule, the Spence Children’s Anxiety Scale, the Multidimensional Anxiety Scale for Children and the Clinical Global Impressions-Severity Scale. Several studies additionally measured improvements in adaptive behavior measured by the Vineland Adaptive Behavior Scale as an outcome, and, one study measured improvements in executive functioning and one study measured improvements in emotion regulation as the primary outcome. The study assessing utilization of parent training augmentation of risperidone examined outcomes including irritability, maladaptive behaviors, socialization and communication. Setting Studies were primarily conducted in the US with one study conducted in Singapore. Interventions typically occurred in outpatient treatment centers and in the participants’ homes. G-3 Table G-4. Applicability of studies evaluating play/interaction-based interventions Domain Description of applicability of evidence Population Studies included children between 21 and 75 months of age with confirmed ASD diagnoses. The majority of children were male and were generally recruited from populations of children already receiving intervention in early intervention settings, preschools, or specialty schools. Children in studies were representative of the larger population of children with ASD in early intervention programs. Intervention Interventions used approaches focusing on joint attention, with most joint attention interventions using elements of Kasari’s 2006 model; play skills/pretend play with a typically developing peer model; imitation; and parental responsivity. On study modified the Hanen More than Words approach. Intervention was mediated by parents/caregivers, teachers, and interventionists. Comparators Comparators included early intervention without additional joint attention or interaction training or no specific intervention. Outcomes Targeted outcomes included joint attention and engagement, imitation, language, play skills, and social skills. Setting Studies were conducted in mainstream and ASD-specific