instead of focusing on a specific behavior of interest. 42 Positive effects seen with these approaches in terms of cognition and language have led to the suggestion that beginning intensive therapy at an earlier age may lead to greater improvements. 40 , 42 , 43 Recent systematic reviews and meta- analyses have highlighted the potential of early intervention to promote behavioral change. 36-39 , 43-52 2 Other behavioral approaches include interventions focused on joint attention and play, social skills interventions, and cognitive behavioral therapy and other approaches to ameliorate symptoms commonly associated with ASD such as anger or anxiety. Chronic management throughout different developmental periods is often pursued to maximize functional independence and quality of life by minimizing the core ASD features, facilitating development and learning, promoting socialization, reducing maladaptive behaviors, and educating and supporting families. For many individuals core symptoms of ASD may see improvements with intervention and over time 8-11 ; however, deficits typically remain throughout the lifespan, although developmental expression may vary. Scope and Key Questions The current systematic review updates our comprehensive review of therapies for children with ASD published in 2011 (available at www.effectivehealthcare.ahrq.gov/ehc/products/106/656/CER26_Autism_Report_04-14- 2011.pdf ). 39 The 2011 review assessed the literature reporting on any intervention approaches (i.e., behavioral, educational, medical, allied health, and CAM) and included more than 150 unique studies, the majority of which were considered of poor quality. Strength of the evidence for most interventions/outcomes was insufficient, with the exception of moderate and high ratings for the effectiveness and harms of the antipsychotics risperidone and aripiprazole. The strength of the evidence was considered low for the effectiveness of early intensive behavioral and developmental intervention. Positive outcomes from an early and intensive behavioral and developmental intervention were noted in cognitive performance, language skills, and adaptive behavior when the intervention was delivered over substantial intervals of time (i.e., 1–2 years) but at the time, a limited body of comparative evidence led to a low strength of evidence for these effects. Variability in response to such approaches was large, with subgroups of children who demonstrated a more moderated response. The ability to describe and predict these subgroups was limited. Since the publication of the initial review in 2011, a sizable body of research has been published on behavioral interventions. Additional studies of these interventions have the potential to alter the low and insufficient strength of evidence reported in the original review and potentially affect treatment recommendations. We recognize that ASD intervention categories overlap substantially, and it is difficult to cleanly identify the category into which an intervention should be placed. We considered multiple approaches for organizing the results with key stakeholders involved in the 2011 review. Ultimately, we defined behavioral interventions to include early intensive behavioral and developmental interventions, social skills interventions, play/interaction-focused approaches, interventions targeting symptoms commonly associated with ASD such as anxiety, and other general psychosocial approaches. This behavioral category does not include interventions that are primarily medical, complementary and alternative interventions, allied health, or educationally focused. We did include some studies