database searches, review articles, and bibliographies, we examined abstracts of articles to determine whether studies met our criteria. Two reviewers separately evaluated each abstract for inclusion or exclusion, using an Abstract Review Form (Appendix B). If one reviewer concluded that the article could be eligible for the review based on the abstract, we retained it for full text assessment. Two reviewers independently assessed the full text of each included study using a standardized form (Appendix B) that included questions stemming from our inclusion/exclusion criteria. Disagreements between reviewers were resolved by a third-party adjudicator. The group of abstract and full text reviewers included expert clinicians and researchers and health services researchers. Data Extraction and Data Management The staff members and clinical experts who conducted this review jointly developed the evidence tables, which were used to extract data from the studies. We used table categories and parameters as outlined in the 2011 review. Tables aim to provide sufficient information to enable readers to understand the studies, including issues of study design, descriptions of the study populations (for applicability), description of the intervention, and baseline and outcome data on constructs of interest. All team members shared the task of initially entering information into the evidence table. Another member of the team also independently reviewed the articles and edited all initial table entries for accuracy, completeness, and consistency. The full research team met regularly during the article extraction period and discussed issues related to data extraction (e.g., optimal level of detail in the description of the intervention). In addition to outcomes related to treatment effectiveness and modifiers of effects, we extracted all data available on harms. Harms encompass the full range of specific negative effects, including the narrower definition of adverse events. The final evidence tables are presented in their entirety in Appendix C. Studies are presented in the evidence tables alphabetically by the last name of the first author within each year. When possible to identify, analyses resulting from the same study were grouped into a single evidence table. For those studies reported in the 2011 review and with followup data reported here, the evidence table for the original studies can be found in the 2011 report. 39 Individual Study Quality Assessment We used the approach to assessing the quality of individual studies that was developed for the 2011 review and following methods outlined in the AHRQ Effective Health Care program’s “Methods Guide for Effectiveness and Comparative Effectiveness Reviews . ” 55 We assessed the 12 quality of studies in the domains below using specific questions to evaluate a study’s conduct. We rated each domain individually and combined them for an overall quality level as described below and in Appendix D. Three levels were possible: good, fair, and poor (Table 2). Study design 1. Did the study employ a group design (have a comparison group)? 2. Were the groups randomly assigned? 3. If no, was there an appropriate comparison group? 4. If yes, was randomization done correctly? Diagnostic approach 1. Was a valid