end of the child’s birthday month. Solution: Submit two separate invoices; one per applicable funding period with the applicable billing number. For example: A service provider submits an invoice for the months of October and November 2014, for a child whose birthday falls in the month of October. Since the next Funding Period for the child starts November 1, 2014, two separate invoices should be submitted, one for October dates of service, and one for November. Solution: The Service Provider Portal (see: http://www2.gov.bc.ca/assets/gov/health/ managing-your-health/autism/service_provider_portal_info_sheet.pdf ) provides access to view details of funding periods for each child that a service provider works with. The Portal employs validations that will facilitate the submission of two invoices with correct dates of service on each. Invoice was submitted more than 6 months after the service was provided • Service providers must submit an invoice to the Autism Funding Branch for payment within six months of a date of service. • Invoices submitted more than six months after the earliest date of service on the invoice will not be paid. Solution: It is the responsibility of service providers and parents to ensure that all invoices are received by the AFB in a timely fashion. It is strongly suggested that invoices be submitted in regular intervals (e.g., monthly) as soon as possible after work is completed. Invoice exceeds the funding amount allocated on the RTP • Once a parent/guardian has selected a service provider to work with their child, they notify the MCFD Autism Funding Branch (AFB) by submitting a Request to Pay Service Providers/Suppliers (RTP) form: https://gov.bc.ca/autism-forms-resources . • The RTP specifies the maximum hourly or daily rate that the AFB may pay for a service and the maximum amount of funds that the AFB may pay to a service provider for the funding period. • Service Providers should provide parents/legal guardians with exact duplicates of all invoices submitted to the Autism Funding Branch at the time they are submitted to assist families with expenditure tracking. Solution: It is the responsibility of Service providers and parents to ensure that they both understand the maximum allowable funds per funding period and that they track expenditures during the funding period. It is strongly recommended that parents/ guardians and service providers maintain ongoing communication with regards to hours and billing. Solution: The Service Provider Portal (see: http://www2.gov.bc.ca/assets/gov/health/ managing-your-health/autism/service_provider_portal_info_sheet.pdf ) provides access to view authorized rates and details of allocated funds remaining for each child that a service provider works with. 40 A Parent’s Handbook: Your Guide to Autism Programs Reason Why Did This Happen? Potential Solutions Invoice was not paid because service provided was not eligible • Not all services are eligible for Autism Funding. Please refer to pages 11-12 and pages 14-15 for information about eligible services. Solution: It is the responsibility of parents/guardians to ensure that the services they choose and list on the RTP are eligible for Autism Funding. If the service provider is unsure if the service they offer is eligible, they are encouraged