of Autism Service Providers (RASP). Note : Family counselling/therapy providers do not need to be listed on the Registry of Autism Service Providers (RASP) for eligibilty. Registry of Autism Service Providers (RASP) Parents of children receiving Autism Funding: Under Age 6 are required to select professional service providers for their child from the RASP. In order to be included on the RASP, professionals must demonstrate that their education and experience meet the qualifications required by the ministry. More information about the RASP can be found at AIS BC: autisminfo.gov.bc.ca/rasp/ WE B LI N K S Registry of Autism Service Providers (RASP) and information on choosing service providers at: autisminfo.gov.bc.ca/rasp/ Autism Information Services BC: autisminfo.gov.bc.ca Autism Programs The Ministry of Children and Family Development provides two autism programs: • Autism Funding: Under Age 6 • Autism Funding: Ages 6-18 10 A Parent’s Handbook: Your Guide to Autism Programs Autism Funding: Under Age 6 may only be used for the following: • Services of behaviour consultants/analysts, speech- language pathologists, occupational therapists, and physical therapist who are listed on the Registry of Autism Service Providers (RASP) (see Autism Information Services BC WEBLINK below). • Behaviour interventionists (BI) – (BIs should be supervised by a RASP professional) • Family counselling/therapy. (Family counselling/therapy providers do not need to be listed on the RASP for eligibility). • Family’s administrative costs (e.g., bookkeeping/payroll, up to $100 monthly). • Applicable employer costs (e.g., employee income tax, Canada Pension Plan, Employment Insurance and Workers Compensation Board premiums, four per cent vacation pay). • Up to 20 per cent of the funding may be used for training, travel costs to access eligible autism intervention and training within B.C. (round trip greater than 80 kms) and eligible equipment as necessary for effective intervention, outlined in a Justification for Equipment/Supplies Form completed by a professional/specialist (please see the WEBLINK below or Autism Funding: Under Age 6 - Ineligible Expenses on page 12 for more information). Travel costs to access training within B.C. (round trip greater than 80 kms): • Reimbursement for registration and travel costs for parents or behaviour interventionists to attend autism- specific training. Fees for post-secondary credit courses are not eligible expenses. • Travel expenses may include actual fare for air, bus or train travel, or mileage at $0.40 per kilometre for a private vehicle. • Hotel expenses to a maximum of $150 per night for one room only are eligible. • Parking may be reimbursed to a maximum of $15 per day. • Ferry and toll charges are eligible expenses. • Educational books, DVDs and videos for parents (specific to autism). Travel costs to access autism intervention within B.C. (round trip greater than 80 kms): • If you are unable to access service providers in your own community, you may claim expenses for the most cost-effective method of receiving services as close to home as possible. • Options may include travel to the service provider or bringing the service provider to the community. • Travel expenses may include actual