full LEAP curriculum (including peer mediated social skills, incidental teaching, pivotal response training, the Picture Exchange Communication System (PECS), and positive behavior support) to 23 classrooms (n children=117; mean age: 50.7 months±4.2 months) where teachers received the LEAP manual but no formal training. Both groups received an average of 17 hours per week of intervention over two years. Relative to the manuals-only group, children in the full LEAP training classrooms showed significant (p< .05) improvement on investigator-rated Childhood Autism Rating Scale (CARS) scores, language, cognitive, and social skills measures. The students of teachers rated as having better intervention fidelity showed better outcomes on all measures. Five additional studies (reported in multiple publications) examined the use of school-based ABA programs (one fair quality nonrandomized controlled trial and four fair quality prospective cohort studies. 76 - 77 , 78 , 81-83 All five compared standard special education preschool curriculums to special education preschools with some sort of enhanced intervention modality, including general ABA, 81 , 82 individual UCLA/Lovaas-based behavioral intervention, 76 , 78 Treatment and Education of Autistic and Communication related handicapped Children (TEACCH)- or LEAP- programs, 83 and a mix of behaviorally-based operant conditioning techniques. 77 Mean treatment intensity ranged from 13.8-28.38 hours per week, with length of enrollment varying from 8-24 months. Mean child ages ranged from 25.1-53.5 months. The effects of enhanced school-based interventions relative to standard special education preschool curricula were mixed. Some studies 76-78 found that the enhanced intervention groups showed greater gains in cognitive outcomes and parent-reported adaptive skills. Other studies found that children in all groups improved on cognitive, adaptive, and ASD symptom measures 76 , 81-83 regardless of intervention type, although in some cases treatment groups showed greater improvements. 76 Others found declines in both groups on standardized scores of motor skills. 81 , 82 Intervention efficacy was associated with baseline cognitive scores in one study of TEACCH classrooms, 83 with lower baseline cognitive scores associated with more improvement. 20 Lower baseline ASD severity was associated with parent-reported cognitive and adaptive growth for children who received eclectic vs. ABA intervention, but not with standardized test scores. 81 , 82 Additional UCLA/Lovaas-style intervention over-and-above classroom involvement was associated with reduced ASD symptoms as rated by clinicians on the CARS 78 but not as rated by parents using the Scale of Pervasive Developmental Disorder in Mentally Retarded Persons. 76 Where examined, total hours of intervention per week were not associated with cognitive or adaptive outcomes, although hours were similar across intervention groups within each study (e.g., comparing half-day programs to other half-day programs). Four studies (reported in multiple publications) compared ABA-based early intervention to eclectic treatment as usual. 73 , 79 , 80 , 85-91 , 110 One good quality RCT compared ESDM to community-based interventions. 73 , 85 It randomized children into two groups based on gender and IQ. For two years, 24 children in the ESDM arm (mean age: 23.9±4.0 months at study entry, mean IQ: 61.0±9.2) received 1:1 therapist-delivered manualized intervention (mean of