Keyhole, incorporated elements of Hanen’s More than Words and the TEACCH programs. 97 It compared 15-18 home visits over a 9 month period (n=35) targeting adaptive skills, ASD symptoms, and parent stress to a lower-intensity intervention model (n=26; 5 home visits, no additional services of supports). Compared with the control group, children in the treatment group showed improved adaptive, imitation, and communication skills, based only upon parent report. Mothers in the treatment group also reported improved health but did not report decreases in parenting stress. In summary, young children who received behavioral interventions seemed to improve regardless of intervention type. It is important to note that none of the fair or better quality studies of young children compared children getting treatment to a no treatment control group. One poor quality study reported positive effects of treatment, 97 but the level of intervention intensity varied significantly between groups, and it is unclear whether the effects were due to intensity versus the treatment type. Potential modifiers of treatment efficacy include baseline levels of object interest. 93 Most outcome measures of adaptive functioning were based upon parent report, and the effect of parental perception of treatment efficacy on perception of child functioning was generally not explored. 77 Discussion In this chapter, we summarize our findings about behavioral interventions for children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD). We provide an overview of the state of the literature by intervention type, detail the strength of evidence for the impact of each major intervention on relevant outcomes, and describe major issues and gaps in the current body of evidence. Assessing the literature requires consideration of two main components, namely the observed effectiveness of interventions and our confidence that those effects will remain stable in the face of future research. Our confidence that the observed effect is the true effect and that perceived effectiveness is unlikely to change with future research is presented as strength of evidence, and can be insufficient, low, moderate or high. Strength of evidence describes the adequacy of the current research, both quantity and quality, and whether the entire body of current research provides a consistent and precise estimate of effect. Methods for applying strength of evidence assessments are established in the Evidence-based Practice Centers’ “Methods Guide for Effectiveness and Comparative Effectiveness Reviews” 55 and are based on consideration of five domains: study limitations, consistency in direction of the effect, directness in measuring intended outcomes, precision of effect, and reporting bias. We considered comparative studies—both RCTs and prospective and retrospective cohort studies— from the prior 2011 review plus the studies identified for the current review in determining strength of the evidence for major outcomes. We required at least three fair studies to be available to assign a low strength of evidence rather than considering it to be insufficient. We required at least one good study for moderate strength of evidence and two good studies for high strength of evidence. In addition, to be considered “moderate” or higher, intervention-outcome pairs needed a positive response on