interventions. J Consult Clin Psychol 2008 Feb;76(1):125-37. PMID: 18229990. 84. Kasari C, Freeman S, Paparella T. Joint attention and symbolic play in young children with autism: a randomized controlled intervention study. J Child Psychol Psychiatry 2006 Jun;47(6):611-20. PMID: 16712638. 85. Aldred C, Green J, Emsley R, et al. Mediation of treatment effect in a communication intervention for pre-school children with autism. Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders 2012;42(3):447-54. 86. Aldred C, Green J, Adams C. A new social communication intervention for children with autism: pilot randomised controlled treatment study suggesting effectiveness. J Child Psychol Psychiatry 2004 Nov;45(8):1420-30. PMID: 15482502. D-10 Quality/Risk of Bias Assessment Approach Study Design 1. Did the study employ a group design? Group designs may include randomized controlled trials, prospective or retrospective cohorts, case-control studies + = yes - = no 2. Were the groups randomly assigned? + = yes - = no 3. Was there an appropriate comparison group? The comparison group should accurately represent the characteristics of the intervention group in the absence of the intervention. Specifically, factors that are likely to be associated with the intervention selected and with outcomes observed should be evenly distributed between groups, if possible. These factors may include, for example, age, IQ, severity, etc. + = yes - = no or not reported (NR) 4. If an RCT, was randomization done correctly? + = yes - = no NR NA for all non-RCTs Considerations: Was the approach to randomization described? Were random techniques like computer-generated, sequentially numbered opaque envelope used? Were technically non-random techniques, like alternate days of the week used? Any studies with randomization techniques not reported (NR) will also be reviewed by the team. Participant Ascertainment/Inclusion 1. Was a valid diagnostic approach for ASD used within the study, or were referred participants diagnosed using a valid approach? A. clinical DSM-IV-based diagnosis + ADI-R and/or ADOS D-11 B. [clinical DSM-IV-based diagnosis + other] OR [ADOS + other, such as SRS, CARS, SCQ, CAST, ASSQ, OR STAT, MCHAT for under 30 months] C. Only clinical DSM-IV-based diagnosis OR Only ADOS D. Neither clinical DSM-IV-based diagnosis NOR ADOS 2. Was the sample clearly characterized (e.g., information provided to characterize participants in terms of impairments associated with their ASD, such as cognitive or developmental level)? + = yes - = no or not reported (NR) Considerations: Are baseline measures of IQ, mental age, language facility, etc. reported? How reproducible is the study in terms of the sample participants? Do the authors provide enough information that you could recreate the study population in a new study? 3. Were inclusion and exclusion criteria clearly stated? + = yes - = no or not reported (NR) Considerations: Did the authors report this information? 4. Do the authors report attrition? + = yes - = no Considerations: Do they report loss to follow-up and/or drop-out? If there is no attrition (i.e., baseline and follow up Ns are the same), score as YES 5. Were characteristics of drop-out group evaluated for differences with the participant group