long a behavior occurs. How the teacher responds based on student behavior is perhaps the most important consideration. The basic learning principle discussed above emphasized that the consequence is what determines if a behavior will occur again and how frequently. If the student responds correctly then the teacher will provide positive reinforcement. The teacher may provide an error correction. Both of these consequences are intended to increase the likelihood that the student will give the desired response in the future. 43 Examples of the ABC Model for Teaching New Skills Below are three examples of teaching interactions that highlight the ABC framework for the purpose of planning and organizing instructional interactions. Example 1 Setting (Antecedent): Classroom during learning center time. Children choose the center where they want to play. Student is playing along with the teacher. Target Skill: Categorizing familiar objects. Alt Text Long Description for Example 1 Diagram Above: This diagram includes three sections. Row one (at the top) includes a cue/instruction (also called an antecedent). In this example, the teacher provides a cue, “Is a truck a vehicle or animal?” and provides a verbal model, “vehicle.” (The verbal model is a type of prompt.) Row two (below section one) includes examples of a student response (also called behavior) following the Teacher Response (Consequences) Student Response (Behavior) Cue/Instruction (Antecedent) Teacher provides a verbal cue, "Is a truck a vehicle or animal?" and provides a verbal model, "vehicle." Prompt: Verbal model Student says, "animal" or does not reply. Incorrect Response: Teacher provides a corrective statement and models the correct answer. No Response: Teacher marks the response as incorrect and reassesses if antecedents are clear and reinforcers effective. Student says, "vehicle." Correct Response: Teacher confirms child response with enthusiasm and a high five, says "Yes, it is a vehicle," and continues to play. 44 cue/instruction described above in section one. In this example, in response to the teacher’s verbal cue and prompt, the student either says “animal” or does not reply, or the student says “vehicle.” Section three (at the bottom) includes examples of teacher responses (or consequences) depending on the student’s behavior. If the student says “animal”, this is an incorrect response, and the teacher’s response is to provide the student a corrective statement and model the correct answer. If the student does not reply, this is no response, and the teacher marks the response as incorrect and reassesses if antecedents are clear and reinforcers are effective. If the student says “vehicle,” this is a correct response, and the teacher confirms the student’s response with enthusiasm and a high five, says “yes, it is a vehicle,” and continues to play. 45 Example 2 Setting (Antecedent): A small group of students seated at the table. Teacher holds an instruction book with words written with phonetic notation. Target Skill: Sounding out words using phonetic notation. Alt Text Long Description for Example 2 Diagram Above: This diagram includes three rows. Row one includes a cue/instruction (also called an antecedent). In this example, the