smoothly and avoid “getting stuck” (p values <0.05). Higher baseline scores predicted greater improvements in flexible thinking, social tasks, parent- and 61 teacher-rated executive function shift and planning/organization measure, parent-rated Social Responsiveness Scale total score (p values <0.05). Higher IQ predicted greater improvements in flexible thinking and the challenge task plan measure. Younger age predicted greater improvement on the challenge task and parent-rated executive function measures of shift and planning/organization (p<0.05). Female sex predicted greater improvement on the parent –rated Social Responsiveness Scale total score (p values <0.05). One fair quality RCT (reported in multiple publications) assessed a parent training approach (treatment with risperidone alone vs. risperidone augmented with a parent-training program) to improving adaptive behavior and communication and socialization skills. 167 , 179-181 , 184 The parent training program included 11 core sessions, one home visit and up to three optional sessions during the first 16 weeks, followed by four booster sessions over the next 8 weeks. The training focused first on antecedents, purpose, and reinforcements of problem behaviors and then on teaching parents management strategies for these behaviors. Investigators recruited 124 children ages 4 to 14 years with ASD, severe problem behaviors evidenced by positive scales on the Aberrant Behavior Checklist-Irritability subscale and CGI-S subscales, and IQ>35. Forty-nine participants were randomized to risperidone plus parent training intervention group and 75 to the risperidone alone control group. No group differences were observed with the exception of slightly higher ABC-irritability subscale scores in the intervention group. The Aberrant Behavior Checklist, Vineland, the Home Situations Questionnaire, and the Standardized Observation Analogue Procedure were completed at baseline, at 24 weeks after completion of intervention and, for the Aberrant Behavior Checklist and Home Situations Questionnaire, one year after intervention. At 24 weeks, scores on the Home Situations Questionnaire demonstrated decreased severity in more children in the intervention group vs. control (p<0.006), and greater improvements were noted in the intervention group on the Aberrant Behavior Checklist Irritability (p=0.01), Stereotypic behavior, (p=0.04) and Hyperactivity (p=0.04) subscales compared with the control group. Also at 24 weeks post intervention, greater improvements in the intervention group were noted on Vineland socialization (p=0.01) and adaptive composite (p=0.05) standard scores and on Vineland noncompliance (p=0.03), socialization (p=0.03) and communication (p=0.05) age equivalent scores. These treatment gains were not associated with IQ or adaptive or maladaptive behaviors. Analysis indicated higher baseline Home Situations Questionnaire scores predicted greater improvement regardless of treatment (p=0.007). Authors also analyzed 21 potential moderator variables and none significantly moderated Home Situations Questionnaire or Aberrant Behavior Checklist-Hyperactivity scores, suggesting that parent training may be effective for a range of children. Scores on the standardized observation measure indicated no between group differences in child inappropriate behavior in direct observations under various conditions (free play, restrictive, etc.). In analyses combining both groups, child inappropriate behavior decreased from baseline in the demand and tangible restrictive conditions (p values<.01). Additionally, this measure reported an increase in compliance in the demand condition (p=.0004) when groups were combined. At 1-year followup, data were available