maintaining peer interactions - Sharing - Taking-turns - Preference to play alone vs with peers - Need to be in charge/direct the interaction - Understanding and following rules in group games Example Questions: Does the student share things with other children? Are they interested in playing with peers? Do they avoid other children? Will they initiate or actively seek to join in games? Is the student able to take different parts/roles in group games? Do they have a particular friend or best friend? Social-Emotional Understanding/Reciprocity, including: - Understanding and recognizing needs and feelings of others - Identifying and knowing how to respond to emotions of others - Recognizing how their behavior impacts others - Seeking shared interests with others Example Questions: Does the student try to comfort others if they are sad or hurt? Does the student seek others out to share their enjoyment in an activity? Is the student able to adjust their behavior according to where they are or who they are with? 28 Restricted and Repetitive Patterns of Behavior Domain Gathering information from multiple sources regarding specific autism characteristics in this domain is critical. A student does not need to display all of these characteristics to meet criteria for autism. It is also important to keep in mind that a student may have displayed some of these behaviors in their early childhood but not in the present. Recommended Assessment Sources  Structured Parent Interview (Please refer to the Resource section in the appendix for a link to an example)  Teacher Report  Direct Observation in different settings  Standardized Assessment Below are some examples of aspects of restricted and repetitive patterns of behavior to ask about: Inflexibility, including: - Challenges transitioning between one activity/situation to another - Insistence on sameness - Changes to usual schedule or routine are distressing - Rigid adherence to certain routines or sequences in behavior in daily tasks or situations (e.g., dressing, mealtime, driving routes, bedtime, completing assignments/chores) Example Questions : How does the student respond to changes in their environment or routine? Are there things that they need to do in a particular way/order? How does the student move from one activity to another? Repetitive Motor Mannerisms, Vocalizations, or Stereotypies, such as: - Repetitive movements such as hand flapping, rocking, pacing, picking, chewing, finger flicking or twisting - Repetitive vocal patterns such as humming or making non-word sounds - Self-injurious behavior including head banging, biting, or scratching Example Questions: Does the student show any self-harming behaviors such as banging their head, biting, or hitting any part of their body? Does the student engage in repetitive body movements such as hand/finger flapping or twisting, whole body movements, tensing, toe walking, putting their hands over their ears, etc. 29 Preoccupation with Particular Items, Objects, or Topics. These preoccupations can be unusual in nature or the intensity of the preoccupation may be outside developmental expectations. - High interest in objects, topics, or themes that are outside typical developmentally appropriate levels - Has a narrow