follow young children receiving early joint attention intervention until they were school-aged, but it failed to include adequate followup of the control group. It also involved children who were receiving many hours of uncontrolled interventions during the course of study. KQ5. Generalization of Treatment Effects Key Points • Some studies of imitation and joint attention reported generalization of skills, setting, and individual/provider from the treatment context to a novel context. Overview of the Literature Twelve studies (reported in multiple publications) reporting on different interventions measured generalization of effects seen in treatment. However, several studies incorporated parent- or teacher-delivered components, which may promote generalization of skills to the home and classroom. 93 , 101-104 , 126 , 129 , 151-153 , 155 , 157 , 158 , 161 , 166 , 178 , 196 Detailed Analysis Few studies measured generalization of effects seen in treatment; however, several studies incorporated parent- or teacher-delivered components, which may promote generalization of skills to the home and classroom. Among play/interaction-focused studies, one study of imitation training reported that gains in elicited imitation skills in the treatment group were also reflected in improvements in motor imitation skills, suggesting transfer of skills learned in the intervention. 152 , 153 In a prospective cohort study assessing an intervention targeting pretend play, treatment group participants maintained their level of play dialog with novel toys when scripted dialog (a component of the initial intervention) was not provided. 161 Four interventions targeting 75 joint attention skills based in preschools reported generalization: in one, increases in joint attention initiations with preschool teachers generalized to longer duration of joint engagement with mothers (10% increase from baseline compared with 2% decrease for control group). 155 Time jointly engaged with preschool teachers, however, did not increase. Two other studies 151 , 157 suggested that joint attention skills training transferred to the classroom with treatment group participants spending less unengaged time and/or initiating more gestures. In a final study, children receiving either a joint attention or symbolic play interventions were able to generalize increases in responding to joint attention to a novel individual. 158 Studies of early intervention approaches reported greater socially engaged imitation that generalized across settings and context in the treatment group, 103 , 104 increased frequency of joint attention acts with an unfamiliar examiner, 93 and maintenance of skills over time and in the home and center-based setting. 101 , 102 One study of a social skills intervention reported increases in participant social skills on intervention staff-rated but not parent-rated measures for either a Skillstreaming group or comparison group receiving a sociodramatic relational intervention. 129 In another social skills study, parents of children in a program enhanced for children with high functioning ASD reported improvements in their children’s skills in various settings while parents of children in a traditional social skills group did not. 126 Finally, an analysis of Vineland and parental intrusiveness scores across income categories revealed no significant differences in one study of CBT, suggesting that the intervention is applicable across