studies to be available to assign a low strength of evidence rather than considering it to be insufficient. We required at least one good study for moderate strength of evidence and two good studies for high strength of evidence. In addition, to be considered “moderate” or higher, intervention-outcome pairs needed a positive response on two out of the three domains other than study limitations. Once we had established the maximum strength of evidence possible based upon these criteria, we assessed the number of studies and range of study designs for a given intervention- outcome pair, and downgraded the rating when the cumulative evidence was not sufficient to justify the higher rating. The possible grades were: • High: High confidence that the evidence reflects the true effect. Further research is unlikely to change estimates • Moderate: Moderate confidence that the evidence reflects the true effect. Further research may change our confidence in the estimate of effect and may change the estimate • Low: Low confidence that the evidence reflects the true effect. Further research is likely to change confidence in the estimate of effect and is also likely to change the estimate • Insufficient: Evidence is either unavailable or does not permit a conclusion. Table 4. Domains used to assess strength of evidence a Domain Explanation Study Limitations Degree to which included studies for a given outcome have a high likelihood of adequate protection against bias (i.e., good internal validity), assessed through study design and study conduct. Consistency Degree to which included studies find either the same direction or similar magnitude of effect. Assessed through two main elements: • Direction of effect: Effect sizes have the same sign (that is, are on the same side of no effect or a minimally important difference). • Magnitude of effect: The range of effect sizes is similar. 15 Table 4. Domains used to assess strength of evidence a (continued) Domain Explanation Directness Extent to which evidence links interventions directly to a health outcome of specifi c importance for the review, and for comparative studies, whether the comparisons are based on head-to-head studies. Evidence may be indirect in several situations such as: • Outcome being graded is considered intermediate in a review that is focused on clinical health outcomes (such as morbidity, mortality). • Data do not come from head-to-head comparisons but rather from two or more bodies of evidence to compare. • Data are available only for proxy respondents instead of directly from patients for situations in which patients are capable of self-reporting and self-report is more reliable. Precision Degree of certainty surrounding an effect estimate with respect to a given outcome, based on the sufficiency of sample size and number of events. A body of evidence will generally be imprecise if the optimal information size (OIS) is not met. OIS refers to the minimum number of patients (and events when assessing dichotomous outcomes) needed for an evidence base to be considered adequately powered. Reporting bias Degree of selective publishing or reporting of research