or IQ level. 159 ASD Severity/Symptom Severity and Diagnoses In some studies, children with lower symptom severity or less severe diagnoses improved more than participants with greater impairments. In an RCT assessing ABA-based early intervention, lower baseline ASD severity was associated with parent-reported cognitive and adaptive growth for children who received eclectic vs. ABA intervention, but not with improvements in standardized cognitive test scores. 81 , 82 A prospective cohort study of preschool- based early intensive intervention reported that children in the early intervention group with PDD-NOS or Asperger diagnoses (but not autism) had greater gains in overall adaptive behavior, communication, and daily living skills. 77 A prospective cohort study comparing four early intervention approaches (home-based 1:1 ABA intervention, low intensity home-based programming for children with special needs [portage], home-based, local health authority- developed intervention incorporating parent training, and special education nursery/preschool) evaluated relationships between ASD severity, time in intervention, and effectiveness of intervention. 95 Hours of intervention ranged from 2 to 40 across groups, with the home-based 71 ABA group receiving the most (mean 30.4/week) and the Portage group the least (mean 8.5/week). Baseline ASD severity and total intervention hours modified effects of treatment significantly. First, baseline ASD severity was inversely related to composite change scores for all but the home-based ABA group and was positively related in that group. That is, children with more severe ASD symptoms made more progress in ABA and less in the other intervention groups. Second, more intervention time was negatively related to composite change scores for children in ABA but not in the other groups. More hours of ABA were associated with less progress relative to more hours of school enrollment or other home-based interventions. Two reports 88 , 90 including participants in a retrospective cohort study evaluating an early intervention approach 86 assessed potential outcome predictors including baseline age, Vineland scores, IQ, and ASD severity (CARS). Younger age at intake, higher initial developmental levels 90 and treatment intensity 88 , 90 were related to better treatment outcomes. Vineland standard scores and IQ and mental age were higher for the 32 children whose followup standard scores on cognitive and/or adaptive behavior were in the low average range or better (>85) and whose CARS scores were in or very close to the non-ASD range (<30), Similarly, these “average outcome” children had significantly lower intake CARS severity scores, began intervention earlier (mean 42 months vs. 55 for rest of sample), and received intervention for a longer duration. More of these children also had diagnoses of PDD-NOS. Children who had poor outcomes at followup (n=75) had statistically significantly lower baseline IQ , mental age, rate of development, and Vineland scores (except for the socialization domain), with p values ranging from .01 to <.001. Differences likely were not clinically significant, however, and diagnostic category, severity, age at entry, and duration of therapy were not significantly different in the poor outcome group compared with the rest of the sample. In an RCT evaluating an emotion recognition intervention, long