with an eye toward utility in the treatment setting. Interventions to address ASD are frequently behavioral in nature and highly intensive. They are also frequently adapted to be targeted to specific study participants given the significant heterogeneity of individuals with ASD. In part because this makes behavioral research quite complex and intensive, study sizes tend to be very small. A cutoff sample size of 10 provides a balance, allowing us to review and comment on adequate literature for the review but with studies large enough to suggest effects of the interventions. With the assistance of our technical experts, we selected a minimum sample size of 10 in order to maximize our ability to describe the state of the current literature, while balancing the need to identify studies that could be used to assess treatment effectiveness. We recognize that the combination of requiring a comparison group and setting a minimum of 10 participants for studies to be included effectively excluded much of the literature on behavioral interventions using single-subject designs. Single-subject design studies can be helpful in assessing response to treatment in very short timeframes and under very tightly controlled circumstances, but they typically do not provide information on longer term or functional outcomes, nor are they ideal for external validity without multiple replications. 53 They are useful in serving as demonstration projects, yielding initial evidence that an intervention merits further study, and, in the clinical environment, they can be useful in identifying whether a particular approach to treatment is likely to be helpful for a specific child. Our goal was to identify and review the best evidence for assessing the efficacy and effectiveness of behavioral interventions for children with ASD, with an eye toward utility in the treatment setting. Study Design We accepted any comparative study designs; that is, any study that included both a treatment/intervention and a separate control group. Control participants could receive an alternate intervention, no intervention/waitlist, or placebo. While we recognize that case series and single-subject design studies can be useful for testing hypotheses or piloting interventions, we did not include such studies as the potential for bias associated with the lack of a control group limits the utility of their findings. Outcomes We assessed outcomes in the broad areas of symptom severity, cognitive skills, motor skills, adaptive behavior, language/communication, maladaptive behavior, distress, social skills, and academic attainment. We considered intermediate outcomes as those that occur directly as a result of the intervention and that may also have longer term implications for the ultimate, functional outcomes that are the long-term goal of therapies. We also assessed the harms of 11 interventions, defined by the AHRQ Effective Health Care program as the totality of adverse consequences of an intervention. 54 Language We focused the review on studies published in English. In the opinion of our content experts, most research on ASD is published in English regardless of the native language of the investigators or country of publication. Screening of Studies Once we identified articles through the electronic