CYSN Worker: https://www2.gov.bc.ca/gov/content/family-social- supports/data-monitoring-quality-assurance/ find-services-for-children-teens-families Accessing Autism Programs (Also refer to flowchart on page 9) Step 1: Once an assessment is completed, you will receive a BCAAN Clinical Outcomes Form or a Non-BCAAN (Private) Diagnosis of ASD Form. If the Form indicates a diagnosis of ASD and you would like to apply for autism programs, it is important to contact the local MCFD office as soon as possible to schedule a meeting with a Children and Youth with Support Needs (CYSN) Worker (see Contact Us on page 26). The following documents are required: • The BCAAN Clinical Outcomes Form or Non-BCAAN (Private) Diagnosis of ASD Form, showing a diagnosis of ASD (see Diagnosis and Assessment on page 6 • Proof of your child’s age (such as a birth certificate) • Your child’s BC Care Card • An Application for Autism Programs. If your child received Non-BCAAN (Private) Diagnosis, families must also provide the written report(s) from their private diagnostician(s) to ensure that the B.C. autism assessment standards and guidelines were met and that the Autism Diagnostic Observation Schedule (ADOS) and Autism Diagnostic Interview-revised (ADI-r) were implemented before funding can start. Families who are purchasing a private assessment are encouraged to enquire about the time-line for receiving reports before the assessment begins. The Application for Autism Programs can be found at: www.mcf.gov.bc.ca/ autism/, or your CYSN Worker can provide you with one. Step 2: Your CYSN Worker will meet with you to: • Confirm your child’s eligibility for autism programs • Describe the autism programs, including the options available in your community • Discuss additional planning and support service available through MCFD (please see the sidebar) 16 A Parent’s Handbook: Your Guide to Autism Programs Funding Options Invoice Payment Through an Invoice Payment Agreement, funding is set aside in an “account” held within government in the child’s name and payment is provided directly to service providers for eligible intervention services. Parents choose the service(s) they need and the service provider(s), and notify the Autism Funding Branch using a Request to Pay Service Providers/Suppliers Form. Parents accessing MCFD Autism Funding: Under Age 6 Program must select their professionals from the Registry of Autism Service Providers (RASP). For more information about the RASP, please see: http://autisminfo.gov.bc.ca/. Behaviour Interventionists (BI) are not required to be registered on the RASP, but BIs should be supervised by a RASP professional). Service providers submit invoices to the Autism Funding Branch for services they have provided. MCFD is committed to paying all authorized invoices within 30 days of their receipt, although most are paid sooner. Currently, MCFD requires service providers to submit invoices no more than once per month for authorized services that have already taken place. Invoices received for future-dated services or for missed appointments are not eligible for funding through the Autism Funding Programs. Service providers who provide services under Invoice Payment have up to a maximum of six months after the date of service being provided to submit an invoice to the Autism Funding Branch