greatest effects for specific children (Table 12). The strength of the evidence for parent training interventions is low for a positive effect of their impact on early language and communication skills and low for a positive impact on ASD symptom severity. The strength of the evidence is low for no effect on early cognition. Data are not yet sufficient in this literature base to understand impact on adaptive behavior skills. Available studies indicate variable responses, with modest improvement for some children in some approaches, but limited improvement in other parent training paradigms (Table 13). 80 Table 12. Strength of evidence for ABA-based early intensive behavioral and developmental studies Outcome Strength of Evidence Grade Study Design Quality and Number of Studies (N Total Participants) Study Limitations Consistency Directness Precision Reporting Bias Finding IQ/cognitive Moderate for positive effect RCT: 1 good, 2 fair (360) Prospective cohort: 6 fair, 2 poor (521) nRCT; 1 good, 4 fair (170) Retrospective cohort: 1 fair, 2 poor (182) Medium Consistent Direct Precise Undetected Young children receiving high intensity interventions display improvements in aspects of cognitive functioning. Most studies found that children in treatment and comparison groups both improved on cognitive skills, with children in high intensity early intensive intervention improving more than children receiving other types of services. Not all of these improvements were maintained at long-term followups. Many children display a positive response to this intervention, but the effect is somewhat variable across studies and may be indicative of subgroups with variable response. Across studies where positive effects were seen, the actual treatment impact on skills may vary based on child and intervention factors. A key limitation is that approaches across studies vary substantially, and it is hard to determine the effects of these unique studies on specific groups of children. 81 Table 12. Strength of evidence for ABA-based early intensive behavioral and developmental studies (continued) Outcome Strength of Evidence Grade Study Design Quality and Number of Studies (N Total Participants) Study Limitations Consistency Directness Precision Reporting Bias Finding Adaptive behavior Low for positive effect RCT: 1 good, 1 fair (76) Prospective cohort: 7 fair, 2 poor (616) nRCT: 1 good, 4 fair (170) Retrospective cohort: 1 fair, 2 poor (182) Medium Inconsistent Direct Imprecise Undetected Most studies found that children in both treatment and control groups improved on adaptive skills. However, children in high intensity early intensive intervention improved more than children receiving other types of services. Not all group differences were maintained over long-term followup. There was variability within domains, such that some studies found improvement whereas others found declines in domain standard scores. For example, one study found a decrease in the motor skills domain for both treatment and control groups. An important limitation is that adaptive behavior was always measured by parent report (Vineland) rather than objective observation. Some studies suggested that adaptive behavior outcomes were dependent on baseline child characteristics, such as cognitive and verbal abilities and ASD severity. 82 Table 12. Strength of evidence for ABA-based early intensive behavioral