term improvements in identification of happiness expressions were associated with greater ADOS severity, as was matching of emotions overall and of sadness specifically. 123 In an RCT of a theory of mind training program, children with PDD-NOS improved on most measures of emotion recognition while children with Asperger syndrome improved only in understanding of complex emotions. 128 In another RCT of a group-based social skills approach, children with Asperger syndrome were more likely to be responders compared with children with PDD-NOS (p=.03). 124 Finally, an RCT assessing a parent training approach targeting challenging behaviors examined 21 candidate predictors and moderators of outcome scores on the Home Situations Questionnaire (HSQ) and the Aberrant Behavior Checklist, Hyperactivity/Noncompliance (ABC-H) scale. 167 , 179-181 Children received either parent training plus risperidone (n=75, mean age=7.4) or risperidone alone (n=49, mean age=7.5); thus, potential moderation of effect reflects the combination of parent training and risperidone while predictors of effects reflect the impact of risperidone with or without parent training. Investigators examined variables including parent training adherence, age, IQ, family income, maternal education level, parent stress, and child baseline ratings on measures including the Vineland and ABC. Only higher baseline scores on the HSQ (greater noncompliance) predicted greater improvement in either treatment condition (p=.007), with the lower HSQ group demonstrating less mean improvement than those with higher baseline HSQ scores. Though not significant, older children had slightly more improvement than younger children. No variables predicted ABC-H outcomes, though children with higher baseline Vineland composite and communication subscale scores had greater improvement on the ABC-H. While not a significant predictor of outcomes, greater parent adherence to the training program was correlated with better HSQ outcomes (p=.006), but 72 adherence did not correlate with ABC-H scores. No candidate variables were found to moderate the relationship between parent training and HSQ or ABC-H outcomes, which may suggest that parent training is appropriate for the broader range of children with ASD. Adaptive Behavior Studies reported mixed findings related to outcomes associated with baseline adaptive behavior. In one retrospective cohort, positive outcomes in both the early intervention and the waitlist control groups were related to higher baseline adaptive scores. 86 In one early intervention study, initial higher adaptive behaviors predicted better post-treatment early language comprehension. 101 , 102 In an RCT comparing risperidone alone and risperidone plus parent training, treatment gains were not associated with adaptive or maladaptive behaviors. 167 , 179-181 Language/Communication The impact of language skills and attention to objects (vs. people) were assessed in three studies. In one RCT of the More Than Words program, the treatment group showed differential effects on child communication depending on children’s baseline object interest; children with lower levels of baseline object interest had greater growth in communication skills, whereas children with higher levels of object interest showed attenuated growth. 93 In another study of play-focused intervention, children with baseline expressive language abilities below 11.3 months showed greater gains in language in the intervention group vs. control (effect size=0.25 for 24 children with low