tasks that are not related to their interests or participating in activities that are not on their own terms. • Students with autism may show sensory processing differences. They may be over- or under-sensitive to certain things they touch, taste, hear, or smell. For example, a 9 student with autism may become overwhelmed in a loud, hectic setting such as a cafeteria. • Some students with autism may prefer working one-on-one or with an adult. They may have more challenges in a group setting with their same-aged peers. • Students with autism may be able to talk at great length and with a lot of detail about a topic of interest without noticing if other people are not interested or giving others a chance to respond. • Students with autism may be interested in having friends and playing with their peers, but may tell others what to do and how to play. It can be more challenging to play flexibly with others when it is not on their own terms. • Many students with autism display difficulty generalizing skills across settings, people, and situations. For example, they may be able to communicate in one setting or with a particular person (such as asking for help), but may have more challenges accessing those same communication skills with other people or in different contexts. Benefits of Early Identification and Intervention Research shows early identification and intervention for children with autism are associated with long-term positive outcomes and skill development. During early development, a child’s brain is more “plastic” or changeable than at older ages. Interventions during the early development period have been shown to be effective and can help promote long-term success for children with autism as they grow (Reichow & Wolery, 2009). It is recommended that children with autism begin intervention as soon as they are identified with autism or show indicators of possible autism. A number of different factors may impact when a child is identified with autism. It is possible children with strong intellectual skills may not be referred for an evaluation until they reach school-age. This is likely due in part to adequate development and academic performance in certain areas that mask deficits in early social and adaptive functioning (Katusic et al., 2021). In addition, a prior diagnosis of ADHD, OCD, social anxiety, or sensory processing disorder is often associated with a later age of diagnosis of autism as a child’s difficulties may be attributed to a prior diagnosis (Kentrou et al., 2019). Autism is also a spectrum with a wide range of associated behaviors. A provider without specialized autism training may not recognize a child’s autism-related behavior, which can delay referral for an evaluation. Children who are identified as having autism later in life go through much of their childhood without the support they need to understand their experiences. They also miss out on the benefits of early intervention that can help to give them the best start possible and increase the effectiveness of interventions long-term. 10