a blue marker.” The student’s peer hands her a blue marker. • Self-Management is an intervention that teaches students to monitor their own behavior or task completion and provide their own reinforcement. Classroom Example: A fourth-grade teacher wanted her student to increase his independence in getting ready for class to begin. This involved three primary activities: getting his binder out of his backpack, placing homework in the bin, and getting in his seat quickly. The teacher created a check sheet with each of the activities written on the sheet with a checkbox for the student and a checkbox for the teacher. The teacher modeled for the student how to use the checklist and checkboxes. Ten minutes before the end of class, the teacher looked at the sheet and recorded if she agreed by checking her boxes for each step he completed correctly. He knew that if all boxes were checked he was able to get out a favorite task to work on for 10 minutes. • Response Interruption and Redirection is a physical prompt, comment, or cue presented when an undesired behavior is occurring, to direct the student’s attention away from problematic behavior to a more pro-social response, thus reducing the problematic behavior. Classroom Example: During group time a student intentionally knocks one of the materials off the table. The teacher knows that this can often escalate to throwing and knocking over chairs. The teacher calmly (no comment about the undesired behavior or reprimand) directs the student to his communication device and gestures toward the button that says, “I want to be done.” The student immediately presses the button. The teacher offers a choice between two different activities. • Task Analysis is an assessment procedure that breaks a complex task into smaller manageable steps and then teaches the student to perform each step using instructional procedures such as prompting, modeling, or visual supports. Classroom Example: The fifth-grade teacher identified that she wants her student with autism to be able to independently complete the dismissal routine relying on peers if needed rather than requiring a paraprofessional to complete the routine for him. The general education teacher and special education teacher watched other students perform the routine and recognized that the dismissal routine involved many individual skills linked together. The teachers identified at least 10 individual skills needed (e.g., put papers in 40 backpack, put folder in backpack, zip backpack, put coat on, carry backpack to the door, stand in line, walk to the bus pick up zone, etc.). To determine which skills the student already had and which skills the teacher needed to teach, she assessed each individual skill and recorded the student’s level of independence. She then taught the skills the student needed and used a visual task list to teach the sequence of how all skills should be completed. Two of the steps were difficult for the student so she identified peers who could assist him while he was learning. • Social Skills Training is instruction through role-playing, practice,