including eating, drinking and swallowing. • Occupational Therapist (OT) : An OT is a registered professional who provides services to promote health and well being. The primary goal of occupational therapy is to enable people to participate in activities of everyday life by enhancing an individual’s ability to participate or by modifying the environment to better support participation. An OT can provide assessment, diagnosis, consultation, and intervention/treatment in the areas of functional living such as play, dressing, feeding, school readiness, printing, keyboarding, social skills, ability to cope and work. An OT examines underlying correlations of these deficits and addresses motor, perceptional, social and/or sensory challenges. • Physical Therapist (PT) : A PT is a registered professional who provides services to address how and why movement and function take place. The primary goal of the physical therapist is to improve quality of life by promoting optimal mobility, physical activity and overall health and wellness; managing acute and chronic conditions, activity limitations, and participation restrictions; and improving and maintaining optimal functional independence and physical performance. Physical Therapists provide diagnostic and assessment procedures and tools in order to develop and implement preventive and therapeutic interventions. • Behaviour Interventionist (BI) : A BI is a paraprofessional who practices under the close, ongoing supervision of a Behavior Analyst/Consultant, Speech Language Pathologist or Occupational Therapist. The BI is primarily responsible to implement the intervention plan (e.g., the BPI) developed by the supervising professional(s). The BI may also collect data and conduct simple assessments. The BI does not have the qualifications to work in isolation or design and adjust intervention plans. The tasks that BIs perform will be based on his or her training, experience, and competence. The BI’s supervisor is ultimately responsible for the work performed by the BI. When hiring professionals, select someone who can demonstrate the appropriate qualifications, training and experience and who is able to provide the treatment approach that best fits with the needs and strengths of your child and family. Understand what each person on your child’s team will be doing, how much time they will spend with you and your child, and what they charge for their services. You should have a written contract or agreement with the professionals you hire. Information on creating a contract and selecting professionals to work with your child is available from Autism Information Services BC (AIS BC). Tips For Parents 21 How Much Can I Expect to Pay for Services? The yellow box has guidelines to assist you and service providers in negotiating fees. These guidelines were developed in consultation with professionals and upon review of existing guidelines developed by professional associations. Although many factors may affect the fees charged by professionals, you can expect a correlation between the rate and their credentials, education and experience. Fee Guidelines BC : $70 – $110 per hour (Registered psychologists: Up to $160 per hour) OT : $90 – $120 per hour SLP : $105 – $130 per hour PT : $75 – 85 per visit BI(s)