use the report to assess the evidence for different treatment strategies. In addition, this review will be of use to the National Institutes of Health, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, and Health Resources and Services Administration–all of which have offices or bureaus devoted to child health issues and may use the report to compare treatments and determine priorities for funding. This report can bring practitioners up to date about the current state of evidence related to behavioral interventions, and it provides an assessment of the quality of studies that aim to determine the outcomes of therapeutic options for the management of ASD. It will be of interest to families affected by ASD because of the recurring need for families and their health care providers to make the best possible decisions among numerous options. We also anticipate it will be of use to private-sector organizations concerned with ASD; the report can inform such organizations’ understanding of the effectiveness of treatments and the amount and quality of evidence available. Researchers can obtain a concise analysis of the current state of knowledge related to behavioral interventions for ASD. They will be poised to pursue further investigations that are needed to understand best approaches to behavioral therapies for children with ASD. ES-3 Analytic Framework Figure A illustrates the analytic framework for the current update. The figure illustrates the placement of the review’s KQs within the context of treatment choice, potential outcomes, and characteristics that may affect outcomes. A child entering treatment may be between the ages of 0 and 2 and at risk for diagnosis of ASD or ages 0 to 12 with a diagnosis of ASD. Diagnoses may occur before age 2; thus the represented age ranges overlap. Figure A. Analytic framework for behavioral interventions for children with ASD ASD = autism spectrum disorder Note: Numbers in circles represent placement of Key Questions. Methods Literature Search Strategy A librarian employed search strategies provided in Appendix A of the full report to retrieve research on interventions for children with ASD. We searched MEDLINE ® via the PubMed ® interface, PsycINFO ® (psychology and psychiatry literature), and the Educational Resources Information Clearinghouse using a combination of subject heading terms appropriate for each database and key words relevant to ASD (e.g., autism, Asperger). We limited searches to the English language and literature published since the development of the 2011 review. Our last search was conducted in December 2013. We also manually searched the reference lists of included studies and of recent narrative and systematic reviews and meta-analyses addressing ASD. Inclusion and Exclusion Criteria We developed criteria for inclusion and exclusion based on the patient populations, interventions, outcome measures, and types of evidence specified in the KQs and in consultation with a Technical Expert Panel. Table A summarizes criteria. ES-4 Table A. Inclusion criteria Category Criteria Study population Children ages 0 – 12 with ASD or 0 – 2 considered to be at risk for ASD based on sibling status