or discussion to help students with autism understand social interaction and engagement with others. Teaching social skills can also help reduce problem behavior. Classroom Example: The tenth-grade special education teacher completed an assessment from a social skills curriculum and interviewed his student and the family to identify priority goals in the area of social relatedness. They all agreed the priority goal was helping the student develop friendships, because she had reported feeling lonely and isolated many times over the past year. Through his assessment, the teacher identified several skills that were difficult for the student and began purposefully creating times where he was able to show the student examples of effective and ineffective behaviors. The student and teacher discussed the different outcomes of each of the examples and determined that the student wanted to achieve the outcomes associated with the effective behaviors. They began role playing and rehearsing. Once the student was able to quickly use the language and strategies targeted, the teacher recruited peers from the school’s leadership program to practice during planned social times. In addition, the teacher identified several school clubs that were of interest to the student. • Functional Behavior Assessment (FBA) is a process of developing a hypothesis for the possible function or purpose of a challenging behavior through interviews with key personnel and direct observation. Classroom Example: A middle school special education teacher has been called to his sixth-grade student’s homeroom classroom almost every day because she will not enter the classroom. She sits on the ground in the hallway. The only days she will enter the classroom without assistance are when the class starts with computer lab. The general education teacher and paraprofessional have reported that they have tried all different strategies, and nothing will work. Finally, they request that the principal come to assist. Once the principal arrives, the student will enter the classroom. The special education teacher plans to conduct an FBA to determine what factors in the environment are contributing to maintaining the behavior of refusing to enter the classroom. After observing the student for the morning routine for several days and 41 requesting that the paraprofessional records what happens before and after the refusal, the teacher analyzes the data identifying patterns in order to determine the function of the behavior. The teacher hypothesizes that when the first activity of the day is something other than computer lab the student will refuse to enter the classroom in order to obtain attention from the principal (reinforcing person) or gain access to a preferred activity (computer). ABC (Antecedent, Behavior, Consequence) Framework for Teaching New Skills Many of the EBPs reviewed above come from the field of Applied Behavior Analysis (ABA) . This section provides a brief overview of ABA as a foundation to understand and implement EBPs from this field. ABA is a scientific approach for understanding how the environment reliably influences behavior and learning. ABA is based on the premise that behaviors are learned and can, therefore, be changed through the