an advocate for your child with autism will most likely be a lifelong activity. Early on when faced with the diagnosis, parents are easily overwhelmed by the news. They feel confused, fearful and angry. Many tire easily as they try to cope. It is helpful to remember that you are not alone, that others are going through this so there is support available for you. Keep a folder of articles and other information material so that when you are able to read it, you will have it available. Pace yourself and in time you will do what needs to be done and your efforts over time will make a difference. A PARENT’S GUIDE TO AUTISM 11 Q: My family’s involvement in church is important to us. How do I get my church to be more accepting of my son? For many people, including those members of your church, autism is not something they may have experience with or adequate information about, so you must help educate them. A good place to start is with your pastor or minister. See what he or she knows and offer information as needed. Sometimes a leader will incorporate the related issues into a sermon or lesson. He or she can also suggest folks who can be approached as more open to learning about autism. Then, suggest the church invite a professional to do a workshop on special needs children, with emphasis on the challenges associated with autism. Suggest the church develop a plan to accommodate special needs children in their various activities such as the Sunday school classes, the worship service, the choir, etc. At some point, it may be helpful to bring in a behavioral specialist to work with and train the staff. It may mean asking teachers, parents and other trained professionals in the church to volunteer time helping out in Sunday school, modifying the lessons, etc. Get your community involved and they will thank you later! Once members of your congregation are given accurate information, they will become more open and supportive. You may have to suggest ways they can become involved with your child and with advocacy organizations. There are so many opportunities for the religious community to get involved and to partner with parents. As advocates, parents have a unique opportunity to lead the charge. Q: How do I know everything possible is being done for my child? Sometimes it seems like not enough progress is being made. Almost daily, every parent with a child with autism asks this question: is there more that can be done to help my child? We work as hard as we can, yet very often we feel as though we aren’t doing enough. It is also easy for us to project this on to others involved in our child’s life. In fact, historically, not enough has been done and in many ways, more should be done in today’s world. This is what advocacy is all about. We must continue to push for the