and attention is placed on the child with autism, that it is common for parents to have little time or energy left to focus on their other children. It is important to know that most families find a way to work together, grow stronger and learn ways to reduce the negative impact of the diagnosis and promote a positive future for their children and families. When to Seek Professional Help If you are experiencing several of the following signs and symptoms over a period of time, you may want to seek professional counseling: • You have trouble sleeping and don’t feel rested when you do sleep. • You can’t control your negative thoughts, no matter how hard you try. • You have lost your appetite or you can’t stop eating. • Others point out that you seem irritable, short- tempered or more aggressive than usual. • You are consuming more alcohol than normal or engaging in other reckless behaviors. • You have thoughts that life is not worth living. If you have trouble working through your emotions within a reasonable timeframe or you feel unable to function in your usual ways, it may be a good idea to seek professional help. Professional help can prevent serious problems from developing in the future. It can help to empower us to face challenges more effectively. A PARENT’S GUIDE TO AUTISM 4 Brothers and sisters of children with autism frequently face their own challenges. Much more may be expected from these siblings. They often need help understanding the emotional reactions they are experiencing as a result of the many changes occurring in their lives. This support is essential to their future well-being. Some things your other children may be struggling with: Young children may not understand what is wrong with their brother or sister. They may be confused and unable to fully comprehend the implications of diagnosis. They may have feelings of jealousy and resentment if they see that their parents are spending less time with them compared to their brother or sister with autism. They may feel angry over unequal treatment if their brother or sister is not disciplined in the same way they are or given similar chores to do. They may feel embarrassment with friends or in community settings where strangers react negatively because of their sibling’s unusual and sometimes aggressive behaviors. They are often frustrated by the fact that they are not able to get their brother or sister to respond or interact with them in “normal” ways. Quietly, and sometimes secretly, siblings worry about their brothers and sisters and their parents as everyone in a family is impacted by the disorder in some way. Many children are unable to express their feelings so sometimes revert to “acting out” behaviors. For example, they may misbehave by defying their parents or getting into trouble at school. Strategies for supporting your other children: It is important that your other children under- stand autism and what is going on with their brother