trip to the movies, or Sunday lunch in the park. Tradition and rituals give your family an increased sense of stability and create fun times to enjoy together and to remember. Give yourself time to adjust. Be patient with yourself. It will take some time to understand your child’s disorder and the impact it has on you and your family. Difficult emotions may resurface from time to time. There may be times when you feel helpless and angry that autism has resulted in a life that is much different than the one you had planned. Remember, you will also experience feelings of hope as your child begins to make progress. Make time for your friends. Many parents report that long-lasting friendships have given them the strength and comfort during the most difficult times. If you feel isolated, it’s time to take action. Explore creative interests outside of autism. Try to exercise or explore some creative interests. Take the time to realize that you are important and are more than just the parent of a child with autism. Get involved with the autism community! Sometimes families of individuals with autism find themselves feeling isolated from others. It is important to connect with families that share similar experiences and seek the support of others. We encourage you to reach out and come together with other families at one of the many Autism Speaks Walks held around the country. For more info on how to get involved, visit AutismSpeaksWalk.org. Respite Care If you don’t have a family member or friend to babysit, find respite care in your area so you can recharge and focus on yourself even for a short time each week. Building a relationship with a respite provider gives you a reliable caregiver for your child if there is a family emergency. Respite care allows you to take a break in order to relieve you and prevent stress and fatigue. When you are ready to interview respite care providers, keep in mind that the most important step is to observe how the respite worker interacts with your child with autism and your family. If possible, have the worker spend supervised time with your family member. Below is a checklist of what you will want to discuss with a potential respite worker: • Previous work experience with an individual with autism • Background checks • Training sessions • Behavioral concerns • Safety issues • Availability and flexibility • Work references To find respite care in your area, please look at our online Resource Guide for your state’s information: AutismSpeaks.org/Resource-Guide . A PARENT’S GUIDE TO AUTISM 9 Ths is a post from blogger Chrissy Kelly who has two sons on the autism spectrum. Read more from Chrissy’s blog, Life with Greyson + Parker , at LifewithGreyson.com . How I Let Go of My Expectations and Learned Unconditional Love With one final, excruciating push he flew into the world. All the pressure was released and for the first time in so long I am