or sister. Talk with them early and often in age appropriate ways. Many books and other resources are available to help them to understand this diagnosis, some of which are listed on the Books page of the Autism Speaks Resource Library. Help your children learn how to play and form relationships with their sibling with autism. There are a few simple things that you can do that will help with this, including teaching your other children how to get their sibling’s attention and give simple instructions. It’s also important to praise all your children when they play well together. Find sibling support groups that can help them build friendships and relate to other peers who have a sibling with autism. Don’t hesitate to consult a professional if you feel your child is internalizing most of his or her feelings or beginning to act out. The earlier you address this, the better. It is not a failure to ask for this type of help. Rather, it is a sign of strength and evidence of good parenting. A PARENT’S GUIDE TO AUTISM 5 Ten Things a Parent Can Do to Help Their Child with Autism This is a post by Kimberlee Rutan McCafferty, mother to two sons on the autism spectrum and an Autism Family Partner at the Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia (CHOP). Kim is also the author of a blog about her two children with autism, at AutismMommyTherapist.Wordpress.com . Her book “ Raising Autism ” is available on Amazon. Thirteen years ago this fall our beautiful son, Justin, was diagnosed with PDD at seventeen months of age. He would later go on to receive an “official” autism diagnosis, and would remain on the more severe end of the spectrum. I will never forget the day he was diagnosed – it was both comforting to put a name to some- thing I’d suspected he’d had for a long time, and overwhelming because I just didn’t know what to do next. I remember leaving the developmental pediatrician’s office wishing someone had given me a checklist of things to accomplish which would help both him and our family in those early days post diagnosis. Here are some things I did (and some things I wish I’d done) – I hope they are helpful to you and your family. Number ten is the most important! 1) No matter how exhausted you are, get your child out in the community. It was a struggle with us with Justin (I have the tiny little bitemarks on my body to prove it) but getting him out so he could have a repertoire of leisure activities was crucial to his happiness and to our family’s. It set him up for a lifetime of being able to try different things, which will set him in good stead when I’m no longer here to take him places. Yes, I’m always planning. 2) If you haven’t already done so, join a parent group and/or your school district’s special education PTA. You will