make invaluable connections at both. Try to find parents of kids with your kid’s level of autism as you’re making friends. These people will be a wealth of information for you and a lifeline. 3) If you can afford it, hire an advocate to check out your child’s school program. A fresh set of eyes may see areas that need to improve, or may reassure you that they are doing all they can for your son or daughter. It’s always good to know one in case you need an advocate at an IEP meeting. If you’ve already met, you won’t be scrambling to find one. 4) If possible, volunteer at school functions or offer to be a class mom. This is a great way to get to know your child’s teacher and your school’s administrators better. You may also make friends with other parents too. 5) No matter how difficult your child can be, take any offer of babysitting you can and get out. You need a night off from autism once in a while. Even if it’s for a few hours, a break will help. 6) Now that your child’s program is set, tackle the big issues one at a time- perhaps it’s sleeping, or eating, or potty training. If your child is in a private school there may be a BCBA on staff who can help you. If not and you can afford it, consider hiring a BCBA from an agency. Pick an issue and prioritize. 7) Educate your friends and family as to what’s going on in your household. Perhaps you’ve been too tired up to this point to talk to people not in the “tribe” about what raising an autistic child is really like. It’s time to tell them and ask for the support you need, even if it’s just an ear to listen. My husband and I kept too much to ourselves, and if I could go back in time I’d be more open with everyone in our lives. 8) Make those doctor appointments for yourself that you’ve been putting off. Just do it. 9) Get involved in an autism walk in your community. It is so powerful to meet so many families like (and unlike) yours. It will give you strength. 10) I can’t stress this one enough – take care of yourself, not just your kid. Autism is a marathon, not a sprint. You owe it to yourself and your child to be whole, healthy, and happy. Do whatever it takes to get there. A PARENT’S GUIDE TO AUTISM 6 Building a Support Network In today’s world, there are a variety of family models and this can be especially true for parents or guardians of children with autism. Whatever your family structure, you can expect you will need support and help at many times in your journey as a parent of a child with autism. It’s important to remember to maintain relationships with your family, friends and community in order for your support