to help. The team is specially trained to connect you and your family to resources and information specific to your child’s strengths and challenges. Contact the team at FamilyServices@AutismSpeaks.org (888) 288-4762 (en Español 888-772-9050) Response to the Diagnosis Learning that your child has been diagnosed with autism is a powerful moment in your life. Suddenly your life may feel very different from what you expected it to be. You worry first about your child and what it will mean for his or her life experiences. You worry about how you and your family will adjust to this in the years ahead. You worry about the day-to- day challenges of caring for your child with autism. This is an important turning point in your life as well as the lives of your child and other family members. Getting emotional support and factual information to help you cope and promote a positive future for your child and family will be critical during this period. *For the purposes of this tool kit, the term “autism” will be used to describe children with all types of autism spectrum disorders, including Autistic Disorder, Asperger Disorder, and Pervasive Developmental Disorder Not Otherwise Specified (PDD-NOS) A PARENT’S GUIDE TO AUTISM 2 Common Reactions to the Diagnosis Each family’s reaction to the diagnosis will be different depending on many factors. When a child is diagnosed with autism, parents and other family members frequently experience a range of uncomfortable emotions. Whether or not you have suspected some- thing for awhile or the diagnosis seems to have been out of the blue, many parents experience shock when they hear the words, “your child has autism.” You may go through periods of denial or refusing to believe this is happening to your child. During this time, you may not be able to hear the facts as they relate to your child. Denial is a way of coping. It may be what gets you through a particularly difficult period. It is important to be aware that you may be experiencing denial, so that it doesn’t interfere with making good decisions about your child’s treatment. Some parents mourn some of the hopes and dreams they held for their child before they are able to move on. There will probably be times when you feel sad. Allowing yourself to feel sadness can help you grow. You have every right to feel sad and to express it in ways that are comfortable. Anger is also a natural part of the process and you may find that it’s directed at those closest to you. Anger is a healthy and expected reaction to the feelings of stress that come with your child’s diagnosis. Expressing your anger is natural and at times healthy. There are times you might feel isolated and lonely. These feelings come from a variety of sources when you experience a diagnosis or other significant life change. Loneliness may also come from the fact that you simply don’t feel you have the time to contact