friends or family for company. You may also feel that if you did reach out to others, they wouldn’t understand or be supportive. It’s easy to become overwhelmed with your emotions and concerns about what the future may hold. Painful emotions are natural. If you accept your reactions and acknowledge your feelings, you will be able to move forward and begin advocating for your child. Emotions are powerful. If you deny your feelings or ignore them, they will often surface in unpleasant ways. Ultimately, you will likely feel a sense of acceptance. Your life may not look like what you had planned and you may have to alter your expectations, but your goal remains the same: to help your child live a happy and fulfilling life. Once you accept the diagnosis, you will be ready to advocate for your child and start working toward a brighter future. Common Areas of Concern Like any stressful event in your life, learning your child has autism will affect everyone in your family and network of friends. It’s probably not a surprise that your role as parent will change and you will go through many positive and negative experiences in your new role. Below are examples of new feelings you may encounter: • May feel burden with everyday responsibility of caring child with autism. • May feel pressure to become an autism expert and learn everything overnight. • May worry about child and family’s future. • May have difficulty finding balance and time to manage household tasks, other children, daily activities, etc. • May be less inclined to share feelings. • May become stressed about the family’s finances and the unknowns of the situation. • May develop other problems such as stress and anxiety that can affect work life. A PARENT’S GUIDE TO AUTISM 3 Your Role as a Parent Your Child’s Advocate When your child is first diagnosed, you will likely find yourself fulfilling many roles: care coordinator, therapist, parent, teacher, etc. One of the most important roles you will have is serving as your child’s advocate. Advocating for your child will be a lifelong journey that will require different skills depending on your child’s needs. In her book, Everyday Advocate: Standing Up for Your Child with Autism , Areva Martin describes seven principles that can be applied to serve as an effective advocate for your child: 1. Take Responsibility - Be a leader 2. Learn - Be an expert 3. Think Critically - Be discerning 4. Speak with Authority- Be proactive 5. Document - Be prepared 6. Collaborate - Be a team builder 7. Educate - Be a voice for your child Martin’s book offers examples of each principle as it relates to real world activities that parents can do to advocate for their child with autism. Supporting Your Other Children Parents of children with autism can be under tremen- dous stress. It may seem like there is never enough time to do everything that needs to be done. So much focus