that we are able to realize that our reality may not be so bad at all. When you are living an unexpected life it is easy to focus what you don’t have. But there is also incredible beauty, perspective, love and experiences that come with the unexpected. It’s so important that we notice those gifts too. Sometimes I have moments when I still focus on the death of the expected. But now I remind myself how awful it would feel if someone constantly expected me to be different - and to be someone I’m not. I’ve learned the very definition of unconditional love is choosing to love someone exactly for who they are. A love not based on expectations, but on reality. I’ve finally knocked down that brick house of expectations. Turns out it was hiding the most incredible view. A PARENT’S GUIDE TO AUTISM 10 Frequently Asked Questions from Parents Q: My daughter is 2 years old and was recently diagnosed with autism. I have some family members who keep insisting she’s just delayed. Can you give me any suggestions for how to respond to them? Your situation is very common in families of children diagnosed with special needs, most especially autism. There are so many emotional processes that are occurring for the family as a unit and for each family member individually after getting this diagnosis. Of course there is the initial shock that can send you spiraling into a true grieving process, and each of you in the family will work through this in your own time frame. Part of that process includes a stage of denial as particularly seen from family members who aren’t living with your child day-to- day. It’s probable that it will take them longer to come to terms with the diagnosis. In addition to everything else you are doing, you must also remain patient for this to happen. Family members who love your child will benefit most from learning about autism so they can adapt their interactions and expectations to more appropriate levels. There are also professionals and effective support groups in your community who have a lot of experience and expertise in understanding this process. They may be able to provide you and your extended family with assistance. Q: My husband refuses to accept the diagnosis and will not attend appointments with our doctor. What can I do? This is not uncommon, where one parent accepts the diagnosis and the other is in denial. Denial happens both to fathers and mothers. As difficult as it may be for you at a time like this, you must be patient and supportive. Your spouse will eventually work through his or her denial. Meanwhile, you might try to recommend a book or share an article about autism, but be careful not to pressure. Most people need to do this on their own terms. Q: Since my son was diagnosed, I’ve felt overwhelmed and I can’t even bring myself to read anything about autism. Being