occurs in all families with more than one child and it can be especially complex when it involves a child with special needs. There is no way to avoid giving some extra attention and treatment to a child with autism. For siblings of children with autism, these feelings may develop early because the children may be together all the time. Constantly checking in with your other children about how they are doing, what they need, etc. is a good start. Finding time to be with each child individually also helps immensely, when possible. Involving grandparents, aunts, uncles, trusted neighbors, etc., may help as well. Children at various ages have the capacity to understand the special needs of someone else if you take the time to explain in terms they will understand. Explain behaviors they see in their brother or sister and why you respond differently to deal with these situations. While you don’t want them to become surrogate parents, they do need to know some basic explanations. Also, creating a safe space for them to talk about their feelings with you or with others can prevent later development of toxic resentments. Helping your other children find successful ways to play or interact with their brother or sister is powerful. Siblings may sometimes feel guilty because they do feel resentment and anger, or even just because they are “normal” while their brother or sister is not. Guilt and resentment are normal growing up issues, made more complex often because of a special needs sibling. But like any feeling, they can be talked about and processed so that your other children move forward in their own emotional development and life journeys. A PARENT’S GUIDE TO AUTISM 13 Resources Autism Speaks Autism Response Team The Autism Response Team (ART) is specially trained to connect people with autism, their families and caregivers to information, tools, and resources. A team member can help you find resources to meet your family’s specific needs. 888-288-4762 (en Espanol 888-772-9050) FamilyServices@AutismSpeaks.org Autism Speaks 100 Day Kit for Newly Diagnosed Families The 100 Day Kit was created to help families make the best possible use of the 100 days following an autism diagnosis. Important topics include understanding symptoms, accessing services, finding the right treatments and knowing your child’s rights. AutismSpeaks.org/Family-Services/Tool-Kits/100-Day-Kit Versions for both young children (under 5) and school age children (5-13) Autism Speaks Tool Kits Autism Speaks has developed nearly 50 tool kits for parents and caregivers of children and adults with autism on topics ranging from toilet training and challenging behaviors to housing and employment for adults. All tool kits are available free of charge. AutismSpeaks.org/Family-Services/Tool-Kits Find a Local Resource: Autism Speaks Resource Guide The Resource Guide contains tens of thousands of local resources including pediatricians, behavioral therapists, after school programs and more. AutismSpeaks.org/Resource-Guide Autism Speaks Walk The Autism Speaks Walk is a great way to connect with families and services in your area. Autism Speaks Walk is the world’s largest autism fundraising event dedicated to improving the