best treatments and services available. Meanwhile, we must recognize that there are some limits that we have to accept. Treatments available today have limits. We are learning so much, but we have a long way to go. Government funding clearly has limits, especially in today’s economy. Teachers are frequently overworked with too many students. Sometimes it does help to focus on what is being done and to acknowledge our efforts and the efforts of others. At the same time, as suggested above, parents must be their child’s biggest advocates. When you look at what you do each day, you may want to give yourself a compliment for what you have accomplished. Your child is doing the best he or she can given the many challenges he or she faces daily. Be kind to yourself and remember that your child with autism, like all children, is going to grow and develop at his or her own pace. While we may want to see our children go from one sentence to five paragraphs in a semester, we must accept and celebrate what they do accomplish and gently encourage them forward. Consulting with outside professionals, such as educational therapists, can also help you set goals and look at progress realistically. On this journey, we have to redefine success and progress. It has to be based on our own child’s gifts, and nothing else! A PARENT’S GUIDE TO AUTISM 12 Q: Is there any financial assistance available to assist in the care and education for our child with autism? Financial difficulty is one of the biggest stressors that families with special needs children face. There seems to never be enough funding or financial help available and each family often finds that their own resources are stretched by providing for their child with little hope of reimbursement for all that gets spent. The primary funding source for your child’s services is mandated through a United States federal law, the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA). IDEA governs how states and public agencies provide early intervention, special education and related services to children with disabilities. In addition, your family’s medical insurance may reimburse you for autism services, such as speech therapy or behavioral health treatment, such as Applied Behavior Analysis. Start by speaking with the human resources department where you or your spouse work, and inquire about insurance reimbursement for autism services. Many states now have government agencies monitoring the health insurance industry so this can be a back-up resource to explore benefits as needed. Continuing to advocate for increased funding by the government and by the insurance industry is important. For more information about autism insurance reform in your state, visit the Autism Speaks website. Q: My wife and I worry that over time our other children will develop deep resentments for all the attention and “special treatment” their brother gets and this could negatively impact their lives. Do you have any suggestions for raising our other children so they don’t feel resentment? Sibling rivalry