Parent’s Guide to Autism A Parent’s Guide to Autism An Autism Speaks Family Support Tool Kit A Parent’s Guide to Autism An Autism Speaks Family Support Tool Kit A Parent’s Guide to Autism An Autism Speaks Family Support Tool Kit Support and guidance for parents of children recently diagnosed with autism Parent’s Guide to Autism A PARENT’S GUIDE TO AUTISM © 2018 Autism Speaks Inc. Autism Speaks and Autism Speaks Design are registered trademarks owned by Autism Speaks Inc. All rights reserved. The use of unaffiliated representatives for endorsement, advertising, promotional and sales material is prohibited by law. Autism Speaks does not provide medical or legal advice or services. Rather, Autism Speaks provides general information about autism as a service to the community. The information provided in this email is not a recommendation, referral or endorsement of any resource, therapeutic method, or service provider and does not replace the advice of medical, legal or educational professionals. Autism Speaks has not validated and is not responsible for any information or services provided by third parties. You are urged to use independent judgment and request references when considering any resource associated with the provision of services related to autism. A PARENT’S GUIDE TO AUTISM Table of Contents Introduction 1 Response to the Diagnosis 1 Your Role as a Parent 3 Ten Things Parents Can Do to Help Their Child with Autism 5 Building a Support Network 6 Taking Care of Yourself 7 How I Let Go of My Expectations and Learned Unconditional Love 9 Frequently Asked Questions from Parents 10 Resources 13 A PARENT’S GUIDE TO AUTISM 1 Introduction If your child has recently been diagnosed with an autism spectrum disorder, you have come to the right place. A Parent’s Guide to Autism was developed as part of Autism Speaks’ series of Family Support Tool Kits to support you and promote a positive future for your child and family during an often challenging time. You are not alone in this journey and this guide is a step toward finding the help you need to travel the road to optimal outcomes for you, your child and your family. The Autism Speaks 100 Day Kit for Newly Diagnosed Families (versions for both children under 5 and school age children) was designed to provide you with the information and tools you need to make the best possible use of the days following the diagnosis. It is a comprehensive tool filled with facts and resources such as information about symptoms, treatment, legal rights and advocacy. The 100 Day Kit can be found at AutismSpeaks.org. A Parent’s Guide to Autism will help you: • Learn about how autism may impact your family. • Find strategies and resources for raising a child with autism. • Find support so you don’t feel alone or isolated. • Reduce the negative impact of the diagnosis on your family. • Promote a positive future for your child and family. For additional guidance and support, the Autism Speaks Autism Response Team is here