or some down time. Build a support network of friends and relatives. If you don’t have family in your local community, you may want to consider moving closer to family or friends where you and your child will have a support network to fall back on. Take time for yourself. If you can’t depend on family or friends, find respite care in your area, so you can recharge and focus on yourself even for a short time each week. Social Networking – Find Support Online! Many parents turn to the internet to avoid feeling isolated. Today’s social networking sites will make it easy to seek out support from likeminded parents on the web. Social networking sites such as Facebook, Twitter and autism blogs will allow you to: • Connect with parents in similar situations, who are facing the same challenges. • Ask specific question and get immediate feedback. • Get support from other parents without having to travel or leave home. • Read communications from trusted health organizations. Remember, your child with autism is part of a family and community. Family and friends are more likely to play a part in your support network if they understand your needs and the needs of your child. Do your best to keep family and friends informed and updated on your child’s progress, as well as anything they might be able to do to help. Taking Care of Yourself Caring for a child with autism can be physically exhausting and emotionally draining. Parenting responsibilities can create extraordinary stress. Trying to balance your time and energy with the needs of your other children, the needs of your marriage and your own personal needs is not easy. It takes time to find a good balance and put it into practice. What You Can Do for Yourself Right Now Practice self-care. Even if it is just for 15 minutes a day, take a breather. You need to take care of yourself in order to be able to take care of others. Take time to yourself so you can run errands, relax or enjoy time with your partner or other family members. A PARENT’S GUIDE TO AUTISM 8 Acknowledge what you have accomplished. It’s easy at the end of the day to think about all the things you haven’t been able to do that day. But this tends to discourage us from trying later. Instead, think about all that you did accomplish that day. You will be amazed at how long that list is, and you will feel better about getting started the next day. Focus on the positive. Nothing in life is perfect. Every situation has positive and negative aspects to it. Focusing on the positive, such as the progress your child is making or the amazing speech therapist you found, will give you the energy you need to move forward. Continue family rituals. When possible, continue your family routines or rituals. This will be helpful for your entire family. It may be a Friday night