For example, even the simple forms of social interaction and play that occur in the first year of life such as shaking a rattle, pushing over a block tower, and batting at a hanging crib mobile require children to practice emerging motor skills (e.g., coordination of arm move- ments to bat the mobile) and early problem-solving strategies (e.g., obtaining an out-of-reach rattle by pulling the blanket the rattle rests on). Learning opportunities continue to arise in the context of play and social interaction throughout childhood, and increasingly complex behaviors such as sharing, turn-taking, and social prob- lem solving become necessary for children to interact and play with one another. When social and play behaviors are reinforced, they become more likely to occur again (see Fig. 1.1 for notes on reinforcement). An increase in early play and social behavior sets the stage for novel learning opportunities later in childhood. For example, a child who learns to share toys is more likely to be approached by peers and more likely to play in close proximity to peers (Hine & Wolery, 2006). More time spent playing near other children may then result in more opportunities to observe and imitate play behaviors and more opportunities for peer-to-peer social 2 interaction. Observation, imitation, and peer-to-peer interaction facilitate the acqui- sition of even more social and play skills, and the learning process continues (DeQuinzio, Townsend, Sturmey, & Poulson, 2007; Gonsiorowski, Williamson, & Robins, 2016; Ingersoll & Schreibman, 2006; Robinson, Anderson, Porter, Hart, & Wouden-Miller, 2003). The ongoing process of using newly acquired skills that cre- ate novel opportunities to acquire additional skills has been suggested to be one of the primary drivers of child development (Bijou & Baer, 1961). Although the exact mechanisms and associations between early social and play behavior and ongoing child development are not yet fully understood (Lillard et al., 2013), there is virtu- ally no debate: quality play and social interaction are foundational to healthy child development (Kagan & Lowenstein, 2004). Unfortunately, children with autism spectrum disorders (ASD) often experience deficits and abnormalities in the development of social and play skills (e.g., Carter, Davis, Klin, & Volkmar, 2005). Given the importance of these domains, it is not surprising that a great deal of intervention research aimed at teaching children with ASD target play and social behaviors has been conducted (e.g., Flynn & Healy, 2012; Lang et al., 2009). The interventions with the most supporting scientific evi- dence are the focus of the majority of this book. However, before describing how What is “reinforcement” and why is it important? · Reinforcement has occurred when the consequence of a behavior increases the likelihood of that behavior occurring again. · For example, if a child smiles at mom (behavior) and, upon seeing the smile, mom hugs the child (consequence), the hug can be considered a form of reinforcement if the child smiles more often because of the hug. · Reinforcers can be social or non-social. · Social reinforcers (sometimes referred to as “socially- mediated”) involve