M. (1977). Symbolic play in severely mentally retarded and in autistic children. Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry , 18 , 167–178. 1 More Than Just Fun andfiGames: De nition, Development, andfiIntervention… 17 © Springer International Publishing AG 2018 M.H. Charlop et al., Play and Social Skills for Children with Autism Spectrum Disorder , Evidence-Based Practices in Behavioral Health, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-72500-0_2 Chapter 2 New Is Not Always Improved: Evidence-Based Practice in Play and Social Skills Intervention In the past, children with intellectual and developmental disabilities were described in a number of ways that were later revealed to be inaccurate. For example, in the middle of the twentieth century, some children with severe disabilities (including some with autism spectrum disorder [ASD]) were classified as “untrainable” or “uneducable” by health-care professionals and school systems (Rothstein, 1982). Such descriptors reveal the prevailing paradigm of that time: there was little hope of successfully teaching some children any meaningful skills. For example, profes- sional organizations devoted to special education described children labeled in this way as being nonresponsive to even “the most heroic efforts of today's most skilled therapists” (Rothstein, 1982). The special educators, psychologists, and other stake- holders were not any less devoted or compassionate than those working in the field today. They simply did not have a large body of existing information (i.e., an evi- dence base) derived from carefully controlled research to guide practice and inform policy (see Box 2.1). Ill-informed assumptions that lead to labels such as “uneducable” existed until being sufficiently challenged by research. Pioneers in fields such as applied behav- ior analysis (ABA) and special education conducted studies directly aimed at testing the assumption that some children were beyond the reach of our “most heroic and skilled.” Beginning with efforts to teach basic skills, early paradigm-shifting researchers began creating, testing, and refining interventions designed for children with severe developmental and intellectual disabilities, who in many cases were children with ASD (e.g., Dagoni-Weinberg, 1969; Ferinden & Cooper, 1973; Holman & Baer, 1979). The success of those early intervention studies—in tandem with increased awareness of the dismal educational outcomes and poor quality of life experienced by people with severe disabilities—drew more researchers to the field, and the pace of research quickened. As the body of research involving the education of the “uneducable” continued to grow, researchers carefully summarized and reviewed the research base every few years. In these early research reviews, progress toward more effective treatments and educational programs was 18 acknowledged, missteps were identified, and new refinements were suggested for future research (e.g., Margolies, 1977; Oxman, Webster, Fruchter, & Konstantareas, 1980; Ward, 1970). Over time, research involving people with ASD produced a rich evidence base that overcame the notion that children with ASD (and others) were in some way immune to the influence of treatment structure and environment (e.g., Volkmar, Hoder, & Cohen, 1985). Further, in some cases, intervention developers and researchers demonstrated that treatment could result in improved intellectual func- tioning and even placement in typical school classrooms (e.g., Loovas,