through the one-way mirror. 3. Gradually increase the amount of time the child plays independently. Initially, trials may be 30 seconds long. Gradually increase trials to 45 s, then a minute, a minute and a half, and so on until the child is playing appropriately without your assistance for up to 5 min. “Rules of thumb”: Advice for teaching independent play • Because you are teaching independent play, it is vital that you gradually remove yourself from the play situation as soon as possible. Otherwise the child would not really be playing independently, but rather would be play- ing with guidance and attention from you! Remember that prompts should be faded as soon as possible, and you must then gradually fade your pres- ence from the play environment. • Always provide praise and reinforcement for good playing. Eventually the play activity will become reinforcing to the child, particularly if he is inter- acting with a preferred toy. However, initially the child needs encourage- ment and reinforcement to let him know he is doing a good job and to keep him motivated. • Provide opportunities to play with a variety of toys. This will help prevent the child from becoming bored with the activity, keep him motivated, and aid in generalization of play skills. Independent Activities 46 Cooperative Play Essentially, any play activity that requires that the child take turns constitutes coop- erative play. Thus, there are numerous activities you can use to teach cooperative play, using the following turn-taking procedure such as playing catch, doing a puz- zle, or playing a board game. Box 3.3 lists the steps to teach simple imitation of functional use of toys. Box 3.3 Teaching Cooperative Play and Turn-Taking Teaching cooperative play and turn-taking 1. Sit facing the child, with the play activity placed between you. If you are playing catch/roll, stand or sit at a close distance, no more than four feet initially. 2. Provide a cue that it’s time to play by saying something like, “O.K. Sally, let’s play!” When a child is first learning to take turns, you can initiate play by saying, “Your turn” or “My turn.” An alternative initiation phrase is “Go” or “Go Johnny.” This phrase is good to use when first teaching turn- taking to a child who does not know pronouns yet. 3. If it is your turn, take your turn, and then say, “Your turn,” or “Go,” to the child. The child should take his turn, and then look at you and say, “Your turn” or “Go.” The game should continue on in this manner until the end, or the puzzle is completed. 4. If the child does not take his turn, prompt his response using the following prompt fading procedure: (a) Place the child’s hand on a puzzle piece, spinner, playing piece, etc., and guide his hand through the appropriate play motion. (b) Place the child’s hand on the game piece. Initiate the motion and let him finish it unassisted. (c) Place the child’s hand