playing with toys functionally (i.e., the way toys are meant to be played with), it is generally at this time when they become concerned that their children are not engaging socially. They see their children interacting with toys either imma- turely (e.g., mouthing a toy after 3 years of age) or inappropriately (e.g., staring at the wheel of a toy truck). Parents of children with ASD may also become concerned when they see their children rubbing or flapping toys, lining items up, or organizing them according to some property of belongingness, such as type, color, size, shape, and so on, in the absence of more functional play. However, for many parents, one major worry is that their child does not seem interested in playing with others. As the child gets older and interest still does not develop this deficit will become more obvious. While the child may interact better with adults, interactions are not qualitatively like typically developing children, and interactions with other children do not seem to be displayed. Interests tend to be restricted to specific items and concepts, and patterns of manipulation of play items (stereotypy) tend to be repetitive and quite unusual. As one mother put it, “I became 156 concerned when it became obvious to me that I have a much better relationship and enjoyed playing with my friend’s child more than my own child! That was when I knew I needed to get my son evaluated for autism.” Treatment Without Play and Social Skills It has only been recently that a strong emphasis on play and social skills has been included in the course of treatment for children with ASD. While we may note that functional toy play might have appeared in early curricula for children, pro- portionally, little treatment time had been spent on the social aspect of play. We have collated, in this book, both the evidence-based literature on the play and social skills, as well as “how to” create programs which address these very impor- tant areas. In this chapter, we take a look at some children with ASD who did not have sufficient play and social skills treatment during their ABA programming or school programs. The Case of Jake Jake started his ABA treatment in the early 1990s. Jake started treatment when he was 4 years old and presented with a limited echoic verbal repertoire. He displayed problem behaviors such as tantrums, noncompliance, and aggression. He was pre- occupied with animals and repetitively lined up animal figurines. When provided with other objects, Jake would line them up according to color, size, shape, and other similar characteristics. At the time, the zeitgeist in prognosis was speech before the age of 5 years. Fortunately, Jake was responsive to behavioral speech and language programming, and his echoic behavior was a starting point to introduce mand training and more sophisticated speech. Early treatment consisted of working through his escape-motivated tantrums and focusing his speech and language train- ing on talking about animals. Jake would cry