Social exchanges are limited, but may involve com- ments including “Wow, a dog!” or simple requests to share such as “I want blue.” Accordingly, skills of sharing and waiting for a turn begin to emerge within associa- tive play. Cooperative play involves two or more children engaged in a common activity and interacting together in the play process toward a common goal or theme. Therefore, children are required to acknowledge one other’s participation in the joint activity. An example of cooperative play is two children constructing a block tower together. Each participant must wait for his turn and be attentive while the other child takes his turn. Group Play and Games with Rules Group play includes any activity where there are two or more participants and pre- determined rules for participating correctly (Wolfberg & Schuler, 1993). With group play, cooperation and coordination is required, and imaginative play can also be involved. Group sports such as kickball, basketball, and soccer are types of group play with rules. Other examples include games of tag and capture the flag. Group play can also involve acting out themes in sociodramatic play. For example, cops and robbers require participants to take on roles and act in a specified way, and cooperation with rules is expressed in the hiding, capturing, and jailing of partici- pants. There are also board and card games that are designed for two or more play- ers; however cooperation toward a common goal is not always involved. In this way, games such as BINGO can be more of an associative play type group game because it involves individual players winning rather than working together as a team. Categories of Pretend Play 38 How to Teach Play What to Choose As discussed above, incorporating play into the treatment programs of children with ASD is very important in that it not only facilitates the acquisition of other impor- tant skills such as language, social interaction, and perspective-taking, but it is a socially valid behavior in and of itself. Play takes on many forms over the life span, starting with exploratory and functional play through leisure skills. Steps for select- ing activities the children will enjoy, as well as prompting strategies to use for teach- ing solitary play, cooperative play, symbolic play, and group play, are described below. Child-Preferred Toys, Activities, and Play Partners Children with ASD frequently show strong preferences for particular activities or toys and may engage in such activities to the exclusion of most others (DiCarlo, Reid, & Stricklin, 2003). Children’s preference for particular activities can be used to teach and increase appropriate play, as well as facilitate the social aspects of play. There are several studies that suggest this. For example, Hoch, McComas, Johnson, Faranda, and Guenther (2002) showed that social interactions by children with ASD could be increased when their preferred toys were simply placed in close proximity to peers. Similarly, Koegel, Dyer, and Bell (1987) found that children with ASD were much more social with play partners when they