in social relationships. In fact, many people with ASD seek out social interactions and sincerely cherish their social relationships. Simply being unskilled in social interaction does not mean that a child has no desire for social interaction. The social characteristics commonly associated with ASD include deficits or abnormalities in (a) eye contact, (b) initiating and/or responding to social interactions, (c) emotional reciprocity, (d) speech, (e) joint attention, and (f) use and interpretation of facial expressions and gestures (APA, 2013; Matson & Wilkins, 2007). Unlike social deficits, abnormalities in play are not required for an ASD diagno- sis. However, the diagnostic criterion involving restricted and repetitive patterns of behavior is often first observed during play, and, like social behavior, atypical play has been discussed since autistic disorder was first described (Kanner, 1943). Understandably, given play’s connection to healthy child development and its potential to facilitate development in other areas, the play behavior of children with ASD has received notable research attention. The most commonly reported play abnormalities in children with ASD involve spending less time engaged in parallel and cooperative play and demonstrating less variability or diversity in play involv- ing toys or other objects. For example, in his original description of children with autistic disorder, Kanner noted the tendency to play in isolation and to demonstrate a rigid “insistence on sameness” when given the opportunity to play. As examples of this rigidity, Kanner described play that involved repeatedly spinning a block on its corner always pointing the block in the same direction, repetitious counting objects, and arranging toys in a straight line. These and other examples of restrictive and repetitive play have also been observed in more recent studies. For example, Ozonoff and colleagues (2008) compared the object-exploration play of children with and without ASD and reported that children with ASD displayed significantly more spinning, rotating, and unusual visual exploration of objects. These restrictive and repetitive play behaviors likely displace learning opportuni- ties that could facilitate the acquisition of skills in other domains. For example, instead of building a block castle with a friend, a child with ASD may line the blocks up in a straight line and become upset if another child approaches or tries to touch the block line. Similarly, a child with ASD may insist on playing the same game in the same way every time, which likely limits opportunities for new experi- ences and may drive away potential playmates. Over time, this type of isolated and repetitive play is likely detrimental in a variety of ways. For example, Ozonoff et al. (2008) reported that the more restrictive and repetitive a child’s object-exploration Social and Play Behavior in Children with Autism Spectrum Disorder 10 play behaviors were at 12 months of age, the more severe their social skill deficits and cognitive delays were at 3 years. Additional play deficits associated with ASD include spending less time engaged in the imaginative or pretend play that has been linked to cognitive development (Kasari et al., 2013; Wing, Gould, Yeates,