the ways that neurotypical children do, or they would not need specific techniques to teach them. We know this is the case not only in play and social skills, but with speech and communication as well as with many other skills. Indeed, the first studies attempting to teach children with ASD through observational learning had initially failed (e.g., Varni, Lovaas, Koegel, 72 & Everett, 1979). This made sense because if children with ASD could learn from observation, they would be learning from their interactions with the environment like neurotypical children. It was also suggested that children with ASD, due to their stimulus overselectivity, could not learn from observing modeled behavior. However, it was suggested that observational learning paradigms needed to be set up in a way that would be more likely to facilitate learning for the child with ASD and additional research took root. Subsequent research then started to be more fruitful and demonstrated that chil- dren with ASD did in fact learn through observation if the manner in which the behaviors/tasks were modeled were more consistent with the ways children with ASD learned. Egel, Richman, and Koegel (1981) found that observing peer models effectively increased the ability of children with ASD to learn shapes and colors, and Charlop, Schreibman, and Tryon (1983) also demonstrated that children with ASD could learn receptive labeling tasks by observing peer models. These findings have been replicated across skills (e.g., Ledford, Gast, Luscre, & Ayres, 2008; Tryon & Keane, 1986). Visual Learning and ASD It is clear from our earlier chapter that structured modeling procedures have been a basic technique of direct instruction for children with ASD. We model specific play and social behaviors for the children to imitate and then reinforce the imitative behaviors. Indeed, imitation is at the core of learning for children with ASD. But we have come far in our understanding of how to present material for children with ASD to learn, and over the years, we have learned a lot about ASD children and how they learn. We have learned that many of the children with ASD are much better visual learners and that when we present information, of any kind, the children learn “better” if the material is presented visually. What do we mean by “better?” We mean many things. For example, children with ASD sometimes learn material that they did not learn through traditional means, using visual strategies (among which video modeling is just one) (Quill, 1997). It’s interesting to note that Hodgdon (1995) described visual strategies as tools used to compensate for inadequate audi- tory processing, sequencing, and organization. If we consider what we know about children with ASD, in general, then we will be able to view these children as visual learners. Speaking in generalities, children with ASD tend to be good at visually based skills and not good at verbally based skills. That is, children with ASD, in general, are good with puzzles, mechanical toys, and visual recognition of items such as alphabet letters