NC: University of North Carolina/Frank Porter Graham Child Development Institute/Autism Evidence-Based Practice Review Group. Woods, J., & Poulson, C. L. (2006). The use of scripts to increase the verbal initiations of chil- dren with developmental disabilities to typically developing peers. Education and Treatment of Children , 29 , 437–457. References 107 © Springer International Publishing AG 2018 M.H. Charlop et al., Play and Social Skills for Children with Autism Spectrum Disorder , Evidence-Based Practices in Behavioral Health, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-72500-0_7 Chapter 7 Want to Play? Peer-Mediated Intervention for Young Children with Autism Spectrum Disorder Background and Theoretical Constructs Peer-mediated interventions (PMI) are strategies to promote positive social interactions between children with ASD and their neurotypical peers. PMI allows c hildren with ASD to learn from their peers who are “natural experts” in age-appro- priate social interactions (Bambara, Cole, Kunsch, Tsai, & Ayad, 2016). In PMI, typically developing peers are trained to use specific strategies to interact with chil- dren with ASD. PMI has been found to improve play skills, communication skills, and social skills, to increase task engagement, and to increase friendships for chil- dren with ASD (Carter et al., 2015; Chang & Locke, 2016). PMI creates multiple opportunities for children to interact with their peers, which makes it easier for new skills to generalize into other situations (Barber, Saffo, Gilpin, Craft, & Goldstein, 2016). Indeed, teaching social interaction skills directly with peers, rather than with adults, can make it easier for children with ASD to interact and to learn socially appropriate behaviors (Boudreau, Corkum, Meko, & Smith, 2015). Children naturally practice, refine, and become fluent in social interaction and play skills as they play with one another. This development of social skills is based on social learning theory (Bandura, 1989) in which social and communicative skills are developed through ongoing social interaction within a social environment. However, children with ASD have deficits in social communication behaviors including coordinating joint attention, responding to social bids, and initiating social interactions (Bass & Mulick, 2007; Kamps et al., 2014). Deficits in social skills can lead to a host of negative short- and long-term outcomes including social isolation, peer rejection, and engagement in challenging behavior (Katz & Girolametto, 2013). To prevent these negative outcomes, children with ASD often require specially designed interventions to develop appropriate social skills. The push for inclusive education in which children with disabilities are educated in their natural environments alongside their neurotypical peers seemed to be one 108 way to increase opportunities for children with ASD to interact with same-age peers. Yet, research has shown that simply placing children with ASD in the same environment with neurotypical peers does not necessarily produce gains in social interaction skills (Katz & Girolametto, 2013; Laushey & Heflin, 2000). Children with ASD have specific needs and require systematic instruction to meet those needs (e.g., Strain, Shores, & Timm, 1977). Interventions based on the science of applied behavior analysis have the strongest empirical support and the best outcomes for treating core features of ASD (National Autism