of visual activity schedules and video modeling Visual activity schedules Video modeling Few prerequisites Meets prerequisites for VM Preschool-aged and younger children; less verbal children Elementary school-aged and older children; generally more verbal children Simple play behaviors and independent/cooperative play More complex behaviors such as independent, cooperative, pretend, and sociodramatic play Social verbal behaviors Better for discrete, one or two step behaviors Examples: puzzles, stacking, matching, cause and effect toys Good for continuous behaviors Examples: social initiations, conversational speech, pretend play—car wash, expression of emotions 6 Visualizing Success: Visual Schedules andfiScript Strategies forfiTeaching Play… 97 Visual Activity Schedules A visual activity schedule is a picture or set of pictures that cue the child with ASD to engage in a behavior or sequence of behaviors (McClannahan & Krantz, 2010). It is a look-then-do chain of behavior (Banda & Grimmett, 2008). The pictures can be actual photographs, or they can be drawings or clip art. They can contain written words on them (if the child can read or for later use as with PECS cards). They can be used for the moment’s activity (e.g., playing with blocks in the present) or consist of a Velcro string, notebook, rolodex, or even iPad series of pictures to represent a schedule of behaviors for the child (e.g., the child’s morning’s classroom activities, the child’s nighttime routine). A visual activity schedule can be inexpensive and easy to make, can be easily transportable across settings, and, importantly, provides constant visual cues. There are a few prerequisite skills for visual activity schedules, but there are some. These consist of the child being able to match to sample, such as being able to match the picture or photograph with an actual toy or object. Also, the child should be able to respond to manual prompts that may be needed in the beginning while learning how to use the schedules. Finally, the child should display indepen- dence with individual skills. However, it is also fairly easy to teach these prerequi- site skills during visual activity schedule use or before the actual training of using the schedules. Therefore, it is usually quite easy to use visual activity schedules with a majority of children with ASD. Photographic activity schedules are generally preferred over other forms of pic- tures because they have the most iconicity with the actual toys. There is a strong evidence base for these schedules (e.g., Krantz & McClannahan, 1993, 1998; Stevenson, Krantz, & McClannahan, 2000). Visual activity schedules have been used most often for an individual child, but a joint activity schedule also works in terms of teaching peers to play together. Visual activity schedules can be made in a variety of sizes, shapes, and colors and tailored to you and the child’s specific needs and situations. Most visual activity schedules have one picture per page, but that can depend on the child. Table 6.3 offers steps for making several variations of visual activity schedules as well as some helpful tips for preparation implementation. Scripts Do you struggle when