skills of two 10-year-old boys with ASD. Each boy with ASD was paired with a typically developing 10-year-old-boy. Peers were taught to model appropriate play and conversation behaviors, to praise the child with ASD when he engaged in appro- priate play behaviors, to encourage and extend conversations (e.g., “What is your favorite food?”), to take turns with the child with ASD, and to narrate play (e.g., “I’m going to cook the pizza.”). The authors measured play behaviors including Background and Theoretical Constructs 112 play initiation (e.g., “Let’s play blocks”), toy engagement (e.g., driving a toy car), and coordinated joint attention (e.g., alternating eye gaze from toy to peer). They found that the cooperative play and social interaction behaviors improved with the PMI intervention and maintained at a 2-month follow-up assessment. Peer Training A critical component of PMI is the selection and training of peers. While some stud- ies have matched peers to the age and gender of the focus child (e.g., Roeyers, 1996), other studies have found positive outcomes when gender (e.g., Odom & Watts, 1991) or age (e.g., Owen-DeSchryver, Carr, Cale, & Blakeley-Smith, 2008) were not matched. Instead, key considerations for selecting peers are their social and communication skills, their ability to follow directions, and their attendance record (Bass & Mulick, 2007; Chan et al., 2009). Although the format and content of peer training vary across the research base, several themes have emerged. Most studies trained peers separately from children with ASD (Chang & Locke, 2016). In other cases, target social skills were taught to the focus child and the participating peers simultaneously (Strasberger & Ferreri, 2014). Following this initial training, the focus child and his/her peers were encour- aged to use those new social skills in the context of classroom activities and routines (Laushey & Heflin, 2000). Some peer training sessions have been conducted imme- diately prior to PMI sessions (Ganz & Flores, 2008). In these cases, the training sessions may serve to “prime” target peer behaviors. Peers have been trained in various formats. Some studies trained peers in a single session (e.g., Strasberger & Ferreri, 2014), while others held multiple training ses- sions (Storey, Smith, & Strain, 1993). It may be beneficial to hold multiple training sessions in order to ensure peers are fluent in implementing the target strategies (Bass & Mulick, 2007). For example, Katz and Girolametto (2013) held five 30-min social skill lessons in a separate room at the child care center with the focus child with ASD and the two participating peers. During the first two sessions, the instruc- tor read a book about friendship, and the children created a puppet show to sum- marize what had happened in the story. In the third and fourth sessions, the instructor provided written and verbal instruction on how to initiate and maintain play. Children then role played these play interaction behaviors and received coaching and feedback. Across these varied peer training formats and structures, there are common, rec- ommended training components based on direct instruction. First,