it promotes generalization because it essentially teaches the child “to generalize” the behaviors not only in the natural environments but also across their lives (Stokes & Baer, 1977). Self-management also minimizes the involvement of treatment providers once the child is adroit at self-managing (Lee et al., 2007). This is especially useful in classroom settings where teachers supervise numerous stu- dents at the same time. Milieu Teaching Strategies Milieu teaching has been defined as “teaching a child a particular skill in the context of its use” (Pierce & Schreibman, 1997, p. 208). Milieu strategies include the use of motivating materials, following the child’s lead and joining in the activities the child has initiated, offering choices to the child, and the use of incidental teaching tech- niques (e.g., placing a preferred item out of the child’s immediate reach so that the child must make a communicative request for it). In short, milieu teaching takes advantage of “teachable moments” that occur naturally during the child’s daily schedule and/or sets up the natural environment to embed possible “learning epi- sodes” to happen. The evidence base for milieu teaching has ranged from teaching play skills to preschoolers (Garfinkle & Schwartz, 2002) through school-aged chil- dren with ASD (Kohler, Greteman, Raschke, & Highnam, 2007; Stahmer, 1995). Research has also demonstrated social interactions between children with ASD and children with other disabilities (Alpert & Kaiser, 1992; Hemmeter & Kaiser, 1994; Kohler, Anthony, Steighner, & Hoyson, 2001; McGee, Morrier, & Daly, 1999). Importantly, milieu teaching occurs throughout the day-to-day activities of the child in the natural environments, so interactions with typically developing peers are a key component (Diamond & Carpenter, 2000). Mand-Model Rogers-Warren and Warren (1980) developed this naturalistic teaching program that, while still occurring in the natural environment, similar to other NaTS proce- dures, differs in that it uses adults to initiate interactions and other identified target responses by “manding” (i.e., requesting) the child’s attention and target behavior (Rogers-Warren & Warren, 1980). First, the adult arranges the environment with a toy or item that is of interest to the child but is out of the child’s immediate reach. This is establishing a “temptation” for the child. Then the adult makes eye contact Specific Naturalistic Strategies that Work Well for Teaching Play 66 with the child and waits for the child to request the item and, if the child does not, provides a prompt (says, “what do you want?) or models the request (e.g., the adult says “I want car”) for the child to imitate in order to obtain the item. Ultimately, the natural reinforcer is provided for the child (i.e., the toy car). Multiple Incidental Teaching Sessions (MITS) A hybrid of incidental teaching (IT) and discrete trial training (DTT) is multiple incidental teaching sessions (MITS) (Charlop-Christy & Carpenter, 2000). Teaching is done within the natural environment while simultaneously incorporating the use of multiple trial instruction (Charlop-Christy & Carpenter, 2000). It is similar to incidental teaching in that teaching occurs at the appropriate time and setting during the