may be presented all at once in a school binder (McClannahan & Krantz, 2005), or they may have each phrase pre- typed on an individual cue card (Charlop-Christy & Kelso, 2003) and presented one cue card at a time. Finally, a written phrase may be attached to a picture cue. Guidelines are offered in Table 6.4. Writing a Script A one phrase script should be easy to write as long as you remem- ber the pre-assessments. Do not use words that the child does not know, cannot say, or cannot read. Remember that an environmental stimulus needs to be in the setting to be associated with the content of the script for later after the script is faded. Script checklists are a little more difficult to write up so it is helpful to stay on the same subject each day. That way, you are more likely to get the child to remember to check for script phrases as he/she knows that there needs to be discussion about that topic. Conversational scripts are the most difficult to write. Remember to have each line follow from each other and stay with the same content. Also, to keep the to-and- fro nature of a conversation, it is recommended that after the first phrase of the script (typically spoken by the adult or peer), each phrase contains an answer plus a ques- tion so that the conversational partner needs to respond to the previous verbalization (Charlop & Milstein, 1989). Table 6.5 contains several example scripts that can be used or modified to meet your needs. Table 6.4 Guidelines for determining scripts Guidelines for determining scripts 1. Do pre-assessments to determine the verbal and reading levels of the child. 2. Decide what type of occasion do you want the scripts for? A. One-phrase utterance—social greeting, initiation, social commenting B. Throughout-the-day social phrases—check list of several phrases C. Sustained conversation—several phrases in script consisting of questions and answers Scripts 102 Signaling Script Use After a script is written, there needs to be a way to signal the use of the script. Often, the best way to signal the use of a script is an environmental stimulus such as the presence of a toy, another person, a certain setting, and so on. So, if a script is written as an initiation as a bid for attention, person should approach the child, and the child should then be presented with the script, and the child would read the script “Watch me play.” If a script was a conversation for about toys, the child would be brought into the environment where the toys about which the script was written appear, and the first line of the script should be provided. Or, if already in place, the toy can be brought to the forefront and then the script can be presented. The important point to remember here is that the scripts need to be associated with some environmental stimulus so that when they are faded out (discussed below), they will