the atten- dance of preschool with a decrease in violent crime in areas that are associated with higher rates of crime. So, while you may argue that a strong prison system and stiffer laws are what we need to fight crime, the data suggest that more preschools will also help a lot. How can that be? Does that even make sense? Go to preschool; decrease crime! How does this work? Several longitudinal studies now show us that the behaviors taught in preschool can be viewed as so important that they put the children on developmental trajecto- ries that lead them to much improved lives. For example, the Child-Parent Centers study (Temple & Reynolds, 2007) showed that attendance in preschool was associ- ated with a decrease in behavior problems, a decrease in placement in special educa- tion, an increase in literacy rates, and an increase in high school retention, which ultimately led to the association with a decrease in crime, alcoholism, and addiction and an increase in income level. Other studies have corroborated these results. But can attendance in preschool really lead to a reduction in crime so many years later? Sounds farfetched, and it is just correlation research (which does not indicate causation). However, when you view it as a developmental trajectory, it makes much more sense. Behaviors that are learned in preschool help out children who will stay in school. These behaviors include the social skills (getting along with others, turn- taking, sharing, waiting your turn), pre-reading skills which will help the children with more academic areas later in school. Preschool interaction helps the young 9 Conclusion: Play andfiSocial Skills asfiBehavioral Cusps 159 child learn self-regulation skills, and it is much easier to deal with behavior problems of young children who do not have an extensive history of the behavior. Children who can readily control themselves are less likely to be placed in special education classes. As the child develops, he is then able to learn other skills; learning the alphabet leads to advanced reading of science and social studies, learning basic math leads to opportunities of advanced classes, and so on. Importantly, success in school begets success in school later and lends itself more readily to success in the job market. Learning social skills early on increases the likelihood of socializing and recruiting many communities of reinforcement. Thus, each child in preschool is put on a more positive developmental trajectory than if he would not have gone. The results lead to a more productive citizen of the community as opposed to someone who did not have access to more and more skill sets and thus may have dropped out, taken drugs, and became affiliated in a gang or engaged in crime. Preschool behaviors continue to “blossom” and give children the skills to put them on the trajectory that leads to further developmental milestones (Bijou & Baer, 1961). In the developmental psychology literature, these kinds of developmental trajectories open up the world to the youngster. They are referred to