interacting with people were interfering with his employment. Now for the heartbreaking part of Richard’s story. Richard eventually got a job for more money at a program in the mailroom sorting mail, a position way below Richard’s competence level. At the mailroom, an older woman took Richard under her wing, explained the job, and was nice to Richard. He had his first friend, but he was never taught how to be a friend. As life happens, the woman’s hourly shift changed and so Richard, and she no longer worked at the same time. However, Richard would wait for her by her car when she would leave work so he could talk to her. Unfortunately, Richard did not know how to start up a conversation so he would just wait for her to start it. This became annoying for the woman, so she gave Richard “hints” that she didn’t want him to wait at her car. He didn’t pick up on those hints so she told him directly. That didn’t work either. Since the woman didn’t understand autism, she thought she was being stalked. She filed a harassment suit against Richard with their human resources department as her last resort. Needless to say, this was a terrifying albeit unnecessary experience for Richard. He had also lost the “only friend” he had ever made. The case stories of Jake and Richard may be more tragic than some, but they illustrate what can happen when programs and school IEPs do not take the need Treatment Without Play and Social Skills 158 for play and social skills as seriously as other areas of treatment. If you ask a parent of a child with ASD what is the most important behavior they want us, as treatment providers to address, in general, they will answer, they want their child to speak (unless they child has a serious behavior problem such as self-injury). This is usually the first behavior, and we agree, communication is of utmost impor- tance. But, usually, play and social skills are far down the line of treatment con- cerns of parents. Recent research and outcomes like Jake and Richard are changing this. Looking at the “big picture” of a child with ASD’s life is also changing that. When we speak with parents, we try put play and social skills in the perspective of the child’s life, and it is never too soon to start. It is of great importance for a child with ASD to grow up to have a life that is full, happy, social, and more like that of a typical child’s. Developmental Trajectories and Behavioral Cusps Go to Preschool and Prevent Crime! While you may be wondering what this topic has to do with play and social skills and ASD, if the above two case studies have not convinced you, this hopefully will illustrate how play and social skills lead to the further development and learning for the child with ASD. There is a sound body of literature that correlates