opportunities for turn-taking. As well, PRT also reinforces attempts at a correct response as part of shaping the acquisition task. This will lead to improved motivation and a higher ratio of reinforcement to respond- ing. Since the reinforcers are the task items, the preference assessment is essentially done at the beginning of every teaching episode. Response to multiple cues is taught by way of presentation of varying task stimuli. That is, a ball can be a big red ball, a small yellow ball, and so on. These multiple cues are presented so that the child must pay attention to all the cues presented for “ball” (i.e., color, size, as well as shape). Box 4.5 includes guidelines for implementing PRT. Differences Between NLP and PRT While NLP and PRT share many common elements and some basic intervention components (e.g., natural reinforcement con- tingencies), there are also a number of important differences between the two inter- vention packages. NLP is a specific intervention expressly designed for speech, coupled with a play action, focusing on verbal imitation, whereas PRT is more of a general approach, like other naturalistic programs, that seeks out more widespread, collateral gains by focusing on key areas that are “pivotal” in affecting significant change in the child’s repertoire. Additionally, NLP shapes verbalizations to match Box 4.5 How to Do PRT How to do pivotal response training 1. Clear away distractions and make sure the child is attentive. 2. Present the child with a clear and direct instruction, question, or other con- textual opportunity for a response. 3. If the child attends to a different stimulus other than the instruction, remove this distraction and direct their attention back to the appropriate stimulus. 4. Reinforce behavior as follows: (a) If a verbal response, praise the child for good speaking and provide a reinforcer directly related to the response. (b) If the child attempts to respond and responds incorrectly, praise the child for trying and present the instruction again. (c) All responses, including attempts at responses, should be reinforced with praise and related reinforcer. If it is known that the child can respond more fully than a present attempt, do not reinforce but provide instruction again. 5. Use task variation and intersperse new acquisition tasks with maintenance tasks. 6. Present tasks that require response to multiple cues (big red ball instead of red ball). This requires the child to respond to both size and color cues instead of just color cues. 7. Use opportunities in everyday life for educational moments. 8. In order to increase child motivation, be aware of what motivates the child and what frustrates him/her. Specific Naturalistic Strategies that Work Well for Teaching Play 64 the verbal referent and accepts approximations in the early stages. However, once a “closer” approximation is made, a lesser one is not accepted as a correct response. In PRT approximations are allowable at any stage to maintain motivation. Finally, NLP has specific steps and can be viewed as a trial-based procedure. PRT’s more general