of parents training 8 The Power offlParents: Parent-Implemented Interventions forflYoung Children… 145 implementing the intervention. This can serve as either a tip sheet or a checklist for the parent to refer back to during the intervention. Written instructions also allow the parent to mentally rehearse the steps for implementing the intervention (Kashinath et al., 2006) (Fig. 8.5). Verbal instruction should parallel and expand upon what is provided in writing to the family. During verbal instruction, the profes- sional should provide some examples of the intervention, should provide a rationale for why and how the intervention is designed to impact child outcomes, and should address any questions or concerns the parents may have. Fig. 8.5 Examples of written instructions How to Use Parent-Implemented Intervention 146 It is important for the parents to see a demonstration of the intervention procedures. This demonstration could consist of the professional modeling the pro- cedures or could include prerecording video models. If possible, the professional should demonstrate the intervention with the child so that the parent can see exactly how the intervention applies to and can be used with their child. If a prerecording video model is provided during training, the professionals should ensure that the video captures each of the parent behaviors clearly and that the child pictured in the video mirrors as many characteristics of the focus child as possible. Video models should be brief and should focus specifically on the intervention the parent is learn- ing to implement. The professional should “set up” the video example by letting the parent know what she is about to observe. For example, “In this video, you’ll see a mom interacting with her son during a shared book reading routine. Notice how the mom creates opportunities for her son to communicate, how she prompts him to communicate, and how she responds to him when he communicates.” Then, follow- ing the video model, the professional should ask the parent some open-ended ques- tions about the video, such as “What did you notice? How did the mom create opportunities for communication?” The professional may also want to assess the parent’s understanding of the intervention by asking him/her to explain the inter- vention procedures in their own words. This can help the professional to identify points of confusion or to determine whether it is time to move forward to the next phase of training. Practice and Performance Feedback After the parent has read about, heard about, and seen the intervention, it is time to offer opportunities for practicing the intervention. This practice is part of the learning process, and the professional and the parent should anticipate that there will be implementation errors. As such, the professional should create a safe space where the parent feels comfortable trying out the intervention and making mistakes. This can be achieved by telling the parent that at first she will likely make many errors, and that’s perfectly fine and even expected. If she makes a mistake, she can correct herself, or the professional may