of action, and even high-stakes medical deci- sions were sometimes made with limited or inaccurate information. The concept of evidence-based practice first arose in the field of medicine to address this challeng- ing and dangerous context. The aim of the evidence-based medicine movement was to improve patient outcomes by offering doctors a systematic approach to identify- ing medical treatments based on the most rigorous supportive scientific research (Claridge & Fabian, 2005; Guyatt, Sackett, & Cook, 1993). The evidence-based medicine movement has produced a large database of research reviews covering many areas of medicine (e.g., The Cochrane Collaboration, 2017). These reviews allow for different treatment options to be compared based on (a) the extent to which patients benefited from a specific treatment approach in research and (b) the relative rigor of the research supporting each approach (i.e., how carefully a study was conducted). By considering both the quality of the research (rigor) alongside participant (patient) outcomes, doctors are empowered to make more informed treatment choices (Higgins & Green, 2011). The evidence- based practice movement in medicine spread quickly. Evidence-based medicine is now emphasized in medical school training, and the concept drives medical decision- making in many places around the world (Vyse, 2005). In part, the success of the evidence-based practice movement in medicine further highlighted the growing need for a similar systematic approach to making psycho- logical treatment decisions (Wong et al., 2013). The American Psychological Association defined criteria for evaluating the relative efficacy and merit of various psychological treatment options (Chambless & Hollon, 1998). Specifically, Chambless and Hollon set criteria for identifying “empirically supported therapies” (p. 7). Their criteria emphasized a treatment’s demonstrated efficacy, generalizabil- ity, feasibility, and cost-effectiveness. They also set specific requirements for how many studies are necessary for a therapy to be considered empirically supported and guidance for how to resolve discrepancies in results across studies. Chambless and Hollon’s criteria are one option among several sets of criteria that can be used to identify evidence-based practices in psychology. Despite differences across options, each set of evidence-based practice criteria all share similar general areas of empha- sis (e.g., efficacy, rigor, and feasibility). Shortly after the evidence-based practice movement began in psychology, it spread to the field of education. In 2002, the What Works Clearinghouse was created by the US Department of Education’s Institute for Education Sciences with the intent of being “a central and trusted source of scientific evidence for what works in education” (as cited by Wood, 2017). Other groups of stakeholders and practitioners released position statements supporting students’ right to scientifically validated Brief History of the Evidence-Based Practice Movement 20 effective interventions (c.f., Van Houten et al., 1988). Despite these laudable value statements, the degree of emphasis placed on evidence-based practice during in- service training of teachers as well as the extent to which the evidence base drives educational decision-making has not yet reached the level seen in the field of medi- cine (Foxx & Mulick, 2015; Vyse, 2005). Further, although evidence-based prac- tices are now