90% accuracy before implementing the intervention independently with their children. Parents learned to initiate communication with their children by presenting preferred objects and pic- tures, prompting their child to exchange the corresponding picture to request the item, and then responded to their children’s actions accordingly (e.g., delivering the requested item, correcting error). The children in the study mastered communica- tion with PECS after 14–22 parent-implemented intervention sessions and contin- ued to use PECS consistently to communicate after the study. Social Interaction A number of studies have examined ways to improve social interaction skills in young children with ASD (Adams et al., 2012; Kroeger, Schultz, & Newsom, 2007; Williams, Gray, & Tonge, 2012), and many studies have involved parents to different extents in the treatment process (Jull & Mirenda, 2011; Koegel, Koegel, Frea, & Fredeen, 2001; McConachie & Diggle, 2007; Morrison, Sainato, Benchaaban, & Endo, 2002; Stahmer, 1995; Wolfberg, Bottema-Beutel, & DeWitt, 2012; Yang, Wolfberg, Wu, & Hwu, 2003). However, the primary focus of past research has been on clinician-child curricula instead of parent implementation (Wetherby et al., 2014). With this in mind, we would like to briefly describe some successful examples of parent-implemented interventions targeting their children’s social and communication skills. Jull and Mirenda (2011) taught parents to serve play date facilitators for their child with ASD and their typically developing peers. Prior to intervention, the researchers visited the homes a few times to train parents in reinforcing play activi- ties and structure them such that both the child with ASD and the typical peer were required to participate and enjoyed doing so. A manual with key play date strate- gies and specific examples was also provided to the parents. The parents imple- mented several intervention sessions with researcher support before attempting independent implementation. Throughout the intervention, a continuous increase in social interaction with playmates was observed in the children with ASD (Jull & Mirenda, 2011). Play Skills Parents have been taught to implement interventions to increase spe- cific play skills with their child, to increase verbal behaviors during play, and to serve as facilitators for peer play. Pierucci (2016) taught parents of children with ASD between 1 and 3 years of age to implement a play intervention to improve their child’s pretend play skills. The parents participated in group training sessions twice a week for 9 weeks. Targeted intervention techniques include commenting on a toy 8 The Power offlParents: Parent-Implemented Interventions forflYoung Children… 141 (e.g., “I bet your doll is hungry”), requesting specific play behavior (e.g., “Why don’t you scramble an egg for your doll?”), and prompting visually or physically (e.g., showing a toy, using child’s hand to perform a play action). With parent- implemented play intervention, the children developed more complex pretend play skills after 17–18 intervention sessions. Reagon and Higbee (2009) taught three mothers of children with ASD to imple- ment a visual script intervention to increase their child’s verbal initiations during play. Using verbal and written instruction, role-play, and performance feedback, the mothers were taught to