Mandell, 2012). Family systems theory shows us that when we changed the parents’ behavior, we also changed the child’s behavior as well as the relationships between parent and child. Since the early 1990s, the Division for Early Childhood of the Council for Exceptional Children has recognized the family-centered approach as an ideal early childhood intervention model (Odom, McLean, Johnson, & LaMontagne, 1995). In this model, the contribution of other family members impacts the achievement of the children (Bott, 1994). In alignment with the family-centered approach, Part C of 8 The Power offlParents: Parent-Implemented Interventions forflYoung Children… 131 the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA, 2004) requires that early intervention services focus on family support through consultation, training, and coaching. Involving parents in early intervention for ASD is critical (National Research Council [NRC], 2001). Early Intervention Parent-implemented interventions may be particularly beneficial for young children with or at risk for ASD. Research shows that children’s short- and long-term out- comes improve with early intervention services (Diggle, McConachie, & Randle, 2003; NRC, 2001; Smith, Klorman, & Mruzek, 2015) which address the core fea- tures of autism (social skills, communication skills, restrictive and repetitive pat- terns of behaviors and interests; Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders [5th ed.; DSM-5 ; American Psychiatric Association, 2013]). Unfortunately, many families experience difficulty in accessing early intensive intervention ser- vices (Rivard et al., 2017). The Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA, 2004) requires that early intervention services be provided to children with disabili- ties between birth and 3 years of age. Once the child turns 3 years, the local educa- tion agency (typically the local public schools) takes over providing intervention services. However, for those infants and toddlers with developmental delays or ASD, services are often brief with as few as 1 h of direct intervention per week (IDEA Infant and Toddler Coordinators Association, 2016). To compound this issue, there is a critical shortage of early intervention specialists across the United States (Edwards & Gallagher, 2016). One way to address the shortage of early inter- vention services is through parent training. By providing parents with knowledge and skills in early intervention strategies, children can gain additional exposure to intervention (Hoffman, 2016). Promoting Generalization and Maintenance of Learning Children with ASD who receive early intensive behavioral intervention have been shown to have better outcomes (Estes et al., 2015). However, often these intensive behavioral interventions are provided in highly structured clinical settings with little to no carryover to life outside the clinic. In some cases, parents may be unaware of what interventions are being implemented with their child and thus unable to con- tinue to implement those interventions outside of the clinic. In other cases, parents may actually be using practices that conflict with the intervention. This disconnect between the clinic setting and the child’s natural environment can be detrimental to child outcomes (Cosbey & Muldoon, 2017). Teaching parents to implement effective interventions with their child outside of clinical settings is a critical component of early autism intervention