Charlop (2017) implemented a text message script intervention using smartphones to increase the number of conversational phrases and responses in real time during play sessions for children with ASD. A multiple baseline design across dyads of playmates assessed the efficacy of a text message intervention to teach conversational speech with typically developing peers. The participants were trained in their homes on how to retrieve and read messages on an iPhone. Pre-assessments of reading on a smartphone were taken, and once that was established, only a brief amount of training on the smartphone was needed to teach the children with ASD to read their incoming texts and then say what they read to their peer during the play session. Thus, the child had a smartphone by his side, and conversational phrases were texted to him while in a play session with a friend for him to read and say. The therapist was sitting from outside the play session but within hearing distance and sending in text messages to keep the conversation going. This way, the conversation could change and be adapted as in situ. The smartphone and the script texts were faded out. A sample script with fading might look like what is pictured in Fig. 6.1. Table 6.6 Script fading procedures For one-phrase scripts, script fading steps are the following: 1. Last word of phrase is removed (faded) from the script first 2. Last two words are removed (faded) from the script 3. Last three words are removed from the script 4. All but the first word are removed 5. Half of the first word is removed from the script 6. A blank card/sheet of paper is presented Scripts 104 Conclusion Visual strategies focusing on visual activity schedules and scripts are important procedures to use with children with ASD to teach play and social skills. They take advantage of their visual strengths and visual preferences and for these reasons often work when many other intervention do not. They are easy to implement and portable enough to be used in a variety of settings, including natural play settings and community settings. References Banda, D. R., & Grimmett, E. (2008). Enhancing social and transition behaviors of persons with autism through activity schedules: A review. Education and Training in Developmental Disabilities , 2008 ( 43 ), 324–333. Brown, J. L., Krantz, P. J., McClannahan, L. E., & Poulson, C. L. (2008). Using script fading to promote natural environment stimulus control of verbal interactions among youths with autism. Research in Autism Spectrum Disorders , 2 , 480–497. Charlop, M. H., & Milstein, J. P. (1989). Teaching autistic children conversational speech using video-modeling. Journal of Applied Behavior Analysis , 22 , 276–285. Fig. 6.1 Script fading on smartphone 6 Visualizing Success: Visual Schedules andfiScript Strategies forfiTeaching Play… 105 Charlop-Christy, M. H., & Jones, C. (2006). Picture Exchange Communication System (PECS) for autism and other related disorders. In R. McCauley & M. Fey (Eds.), Treatment of language disorders . Pacific Grove, CA: Brookes-Cole. Charlop-Christy, M. H.,