(Wetherby Background and Theoretical Constructs 132 et al., 2014). We know from decades of behavioral research that children with ASD have difficulty using new skills or behaviors outside of the original instructional context (Crone & Mehta, 2016; Simpson, de Boer-Ott, & Smith-Myles, 2003). In other words, the child with ASD who has been taught to label photographs of 30 different animals in a clinical setting with a therapist may not be able to label those animals on a trip to the zoo with their family. The behavior has not generalized. Interventionists must intentionally plan instruction to teach the child to generalize their newly acquired skills across settings, stimuli, and people. We can promote generalization by teaching in multiple environments, by teaching with a variety of stimuli, and by creating opportunities for their child to learn from a variety of peo- ple (Stokes & Baer, 1977). Parents are with their child in multiple environments and can be key players in promoting generalization and maintenance of their child’s newly acquired behav- iors across these settings (Oono, Honey, & McConachie, 2013). For example, if a child is learning to request preferred items such as juice, cookie, or banana during intervention sessions with a trained therapist, his parent may be taught how to create opportunities and help the child request for these items in other settings as well. Now, when the child and his father go to the grocery store, the father can walk the child down the aisles that contain juice, cookies, and bananas, draw the child’s attention to those items (e.g., Dad points to the bananas and says “Ooh! I see some- thing yummy!”), prompt the child to request the item by name (e.g., Dad says “say, banana”), and, when the child requests correctly, deliver the item to the child while expanding on the child’s request (e.g., Dad hands the banana to the child and models the sentence “I want banana”). Research shows that with specialized instruction, children with ASD and their parents can be taught to use new skills in a variety of environments (e.g., Crockett, Fleming, Doepke, & Stevens, 2007; Crone & Mehta, 2016; Gianoumis & Sturmey, 2012). Brief Literature Review Types of Parent-Implemented Interventions Though mothers have served as the interventionists in most research studies (Barton & Fettig, 2013), both mothers and fathers have been taught to implement a variety of interventions with their children with ASD. These interventions can be grouped into two main categories: focused intervention practices and multicomponent approaches. A focused intervention practice refers to a specific set of steps to improve a target outcome (Wong et al., 2014). For example, to improve the child’s language skills, a parent can be taught to create opportunities for their child to speak. The mother may sing “The itsy-bitsy….” and then pause and provide 10 s of silence while looking expectantly at the child. This allows the child to have the opportunity to fill in the word “spider” to their mother’s song. The mother has been 8 The Power