intervention with their child while continuing with their own daily routines and tasks. 8 The Power offlParents: Parent-Implemented Interventions forflYoung Children… 143 Additionally, the child is able to practice behaviors in a natural setting with naturally occurring materials and consequences which promotes maintenance and generalization of their new skills. In most cases, the professional and parents may work to identify existing routines into which intervention can be implemented. Daily routines might include getting dressed in the morning, mealtimes, going to the park, grocery shopping, or playing with toys. In some cases, the professional may encourage the family to adopt a new daily routine to encourage the desired behavior. For example, instead of preparing a snack for the child, the parent may be encouraged to involve the child in food preparation routines. Within this new routine, the parent can create opportunities for the child to practice joint attention behaviors, to request missing ingredients, to label utensils, and to practice turn- taking. These opportunities would not be present if the parent prepared the snack independently from the child (Fig. 8.3). Fig. 8.2 Selecting a target outcome Embed instructions into the existing daily routines (e.g., Teach how to get dressed when the child needs to change clothes in the morning) Adopt a new daily routine to teach desired skills (e.g.,To create opportunities for practicing joint attention behaviors, the parents ask the child to participant in snack preparation) Can the target skill(s) be taught regularly within daily family routines? Yes No Fig. 8.3 Identifying a routine for intervention How to Use Parent-Implemented Intervention 144 Training Parents Once the child’s outcome(s) and targeted routines are selected, the professional can begin to teach the parents how to implement an evidence-based intervention for that target outcome. Again, to improve the contextual fit of the intervention with the family’s home life, the professional should collaborate with the family to ensure the intervention aligns with the family’s values and culture. Families must have access to training and coaching opportunities before they can be expected to implement an intervention. Professionals can train parents individually, in groups, in person, or through the use of online technology. Professionals should work with the families they serve to identify the training format and training schedule that is most feasible and acceptable. For families whose children are in need of particu- larly intensive interventions and supports, individualized training sessions may be necessary (Fig. 8.4). Regardless of the format, there are some key components that should be included in the training. These include written instructions, verbal instruction, models of the intervention being implemented, opportunities for the parent to practice the inter- vention, and performance feedback. When providing parents with written instruc- tions, professionals should avoid jargon or terms that may not be familiar to the family. Written instructions could be as complex as a manual for complex or multi- component interventions or as simple as a single page handout for more focused interventions. All written instructions should include a step-by-step guide for Fig. 8.4 Key elements