of much confusion as the child must reverse the pronoun just used in a question to him (e.g., “How are you ?” “ I am fine, how are you ?”) Finally, Charlop-Christy, Le, and Freeman (2000) calculated a cost- benefit analysis and found a video modeling program to be much more cost-efficient and personnel conserving than in vivo modeling. Video Modeling Video modeling (VM) is defined as the occurrence of a behavior by an observer that is similar to the behavior shown by a model on a videotape. There are many reasons why VM is an appealing and effective treatment approach to use with children with autism. First, VM minimizes attentional and language requirements, requiring the child only to look at a small spatial area (i.e., a television monitor) and to hear only 5 Lights, Camera, Action! Teaching Play and Social Skills to Children with Autism… 75 the minimum necessary language. Second, many children with ASD frequently and spontaneously imitate what they see on television or in videos (Charlop-Christy & Daneshvar, 2003; Shane & Albert, 2008), and video modeling interventions capital- ize on this tendency to imitate. Third, it is relatively easy and fast to create footage of models. For instance, Alberto, Cihak, and Gama (2005) found that developing video materials is less time-consuming than developing many photographic learn- ing tools. Also, use of a VM intervention is relatively economical in terms of resources and materials, especially when compared to interventions that use in vivo instruction (Gena, Couloura, & Kymissis, 2005; Shipley-Benamou, Lutzker, & Taubman, 2002). Finally, video footage can be used repeatedly with the same child or other children who have similar deficits, although it is cautioned that proper pro- tocol suggests that video modeling is designed individually for each child. Numerous studies to date have demonstrated that VM is an effective intervention in teaching conversational skills such as social initiations and play-related state- ments (Charlop & Milstein, 1989; Nikopoulos & Keenan, 2003; Taylor, Levin, & Jasper, 1999), imaginative play (D’Ateno, Mangiapanello, & Taylor, 2003), and perspective-taking skills (Charlop-Christy & Daneshvar, 2003; LeBlanc et al., 2003) to children with ASD. Only one published study conducted by Charlop- Christy et al. (2000) has compared video modeling to in vivo (live) modeling. The results from this study found that video modeling led to faster acquisition of play, language, and self-help skills than the in vivo condition. Additionally, greater gen- eralization of the skills acquired was observed in the video modeling condition. While further studies are needed to support these findings, it is clear that at least in this study, video modeling was more effective than a live model at providing consis- tent learning trials and a wide range of exemplars. Some possible explanations for why this is the case are because video modeling procedures are more motivating to children with autism than in vivo procedures and compensate for their characteristic stimulus overselectivity (Charlop-Christy et al., 2000). In addition, video modeling may increase attention because stimulus novelty increases attention and enhances observational