would be faded to “Let’s play with the” to “Let’s play with” and so on until the entire script is removed. In terms of feasibility, written scripts are inexpensive and easy to develop and implement. Previous research has demonstrated the efficacy of script strategies in many dif- ferent ways. First, systematically fading scripts can occasion an increase in unscripted or novel verbal phrases (Brown et al., 2008; Krantz & McClannahan, 1998; Ledbetter-Cho et al., 2015; Stevenson et al., 2000). Second, research has shown that script use and subsequent fading have improved peer-to-peer communi- cation (Krantz & McClannahan, 1993; Sarokoff, Taylor, & Poulson, 2001; Wichnick, Vener, Pyrtek, & Poulson, 2010). Third, while the majority of studies have addressed using a script to teach a one word to one phrase initiation (e.g., Krantz & McClannahan, 1993, 1998; Sarokoff et al., 2001; Woods & Poulson, 2006), scripts have also been used to teach conversational statements to children with ASD (Brown et al., 2008; Goldstein & Cisar, 1992). In a study by Brown et al. (2008), the authors used a script fading procedure during simulated shopping trips to teach three chil- dren with autism how to initiate and sustain verbal interactions through conversa- tional statements. While individual conversational statements have been taught using scripts (e.g., Goldstein & Cisar, 1992), scripts can also be used to teach that to-and-fro, back- Scripts 100 and- forth nature required with conversations. This requires continued script reading and saying of more than one line of script. Charlop-Christy and Kelso (2003) con- ducted a study that used scripts as a method to teach children with ASD to engage successfully in full conversations. Conversational scripts were composed of seven lines, each consisting of a statement plus a question, with the exception of the first and last lines that were statements to initiate and conclude the conversation. The topics of conversation were abstract and related to activities familiar to the children including school, favorite pastimes, and watching shows. Conversations were pre- sented to the children on cue cards which each contained one line of the conversa- tion (i.e., an answer to the previous question and a continuation question). During training, the therapist asked the initial conversational question then immediately presented the child with the appropriate cue card. The child was told to read the cue card. Once the child read it, they were told to repeat the scripted line to the therapist while maintaining eye contact. This procedure was repeated for each of the child’s three lines of conversation. Once training on the entire conversation was completed, the child was given reinforcement for good reading, sitting, and attending. All the children with ASD in this study quickly met training criteria and maintained correct responding without the cue cards. In addition, the children demonstrated generaliza- tion to untrained topics and across conversational partners and settings. How to Do Scripts The previous literature discussed has shown you that scripts are generally a one phrase proposition. Alternatively, they can also consist of several phrases that