in which the child watches short, filmed clips of a model completing the targeted behavior or behaviors and is then given the opportunity to demonstrate the complete behavior (Bellini & Akullian, 2007). In traditional video modeling programs, the child watches the video on a television screen or computer monitor until he or she consistently exhib- its the targeted behaviors. It carries certain advantages for children with ASD due to its format. It has also been hypothesized that visual formats help lessen some of the Visual Strategies and Video Modeling 74 tendency of response to irrelevant information in the learning setting by simply presenting just the relevant information. This relates to issues of stimulus overselec- tivity , which refers to the tendency to respond to a subset of simultaneously pre- sented environmental cues (Lovaas, Schreibman, Koegel, & Rehm, 1971; Ploog, 2010). Instead of combining incoming stimuli to understand the overall meaning, children with autism tend to focus on certain features or components of a scenario (Happé & Frith, 2006). Responding only to a subset of relevant stimuli negatively affects children’s acquisition of modeled behaviors. Visual strategies may help the child with ASD focus into and respond to only the parts of the learning situation that are relevant for learning. For example, when teaching a child to play with a pilot to fly a toy plane, a teacher needs to use many verbal commands and finger pointing prompts to show the child how to put the pilot into the plane and make the plane fly. The child can “overselect” to the teacher’s verbal instructions or more likely the finger prompts, but sometimes the child may respond to an irrelevant cue in the set- ting such as an inadvertent hand gesture made by the teacher. There are so many possible factors that can go wrong. But, if you make a video of the play activity, a short film clip of, for example, closeup hands placing the pilot in cockpit of the plane and the plane then flying through the air, the child can imitate the play activity with few distractions. The visual presentation of material is often not only an easier mechanism through which children with ASD learn, but it is often also the more preferred medium. Motivation , which has been defined in many ways (e.g., Charlop-Christy, LeBlanc, & Carpenter, 1999; Cooper, Heron, & Heward, 2007), has been said to be associated with visual strategies, especially video modeling. Children with ASD seem to prefer to learn via watching a short “show” on a screen than learning through traditional methods. It has also been hypothesized that for some children with ASD, omitting some of the difficult social cues, which may cause confusion in the teaching situa- tion, may initially at least be of help and benefit to the children. For example, when learning a conversational question, children with ASD often get confused between times when they are supposed to ask questions versus answer questions. Needless to say, learning pronouns is typically a time