can be used by the child in a checklist fashion where he/she checks off which phrase out of the list has been spoken (it is assumed that he will say each phrase in order as they appear on the list). Also, some script literature shows us that scripts can consist of several phrase (typically three) for a sustained conversation. So, depending on length of your desired social communication, the type of script presentation format you choose will come into play. Also, the amount of verbal behavior an individual child has in his repertoire and reading ability are all important factors. Remember to consider all of this when creating your script intervention. Pre-assessments Two important pre-assessments need to be done before you create your script treatment program. First, a verbal pre-assessment needs to take place. Any observational assessment would be helpful for you to determine the length, the sophistication, and the type of script intervention you are planning. For example, if your target child is not very verbal, then you would not want to make your scripts longer than one phrase and you would want to keep your phrases short. If you are thinking about a child with a strong verbal repertoire, then you may want to use a script protocol for conversation training (Charlop-Christy & Kelso, 2003). The main social skill you are trying to rectify is social communication, so you do not have to worry about speech skills, per se. 6 Visualizing Success: Visual Schedules andfiScript Strategies forfiTeaching Play… 101 The second pre-assessment you need to do is a reading pre-assessment . Again, here you may do a formal reading assessment (as in a standardized test) or just do an informal reading analysis. Make sure the child can read the words you are likely to use in the script. Many studies pre-trained the children to read the words before they put them in the scripts. Here is a bit of a dilemma: if the child cannot read the word, and you have not heard him say the word, then maybe he does not know the word; therefore, he would not know what he is saying during the scripted interac- tion. The child should not merely verbalize content when he does not know what he is saying because that is not true social communication. Also, you are not likely to get content generalization as we discussed earlier in this book. Script Formats Script formats can be pre-written for verbal models for later use, such as in video modeling , when the script is not the center of the intervention, but a very important component of the treatment. Here, the format would be considered modeling (it could be in vivo or video). Another form of script could be written, and it is directly off this written script that the child will read and then speak. Such direct written scripts can be typed, printed, on paper, on white boards, and so on. There are many ways to present these written scripts. They