play action such as “Roll car.” 2. Model (demonstrates) the appropriate play action with the toy. For exam- ple, roll a car across the table, make a toy dog run, or spin a top. Then hand the toy to the child and say, “Your turn.” 3. If the child does not imitate the action within about 5–10 s, make sure he/ she is attending to you, repeat the phrase, and model the action again. 4. Provide praise and reinforcement for imitation, e.g., “Good playing!” 5. If the child is not imitating the action, prompt appropriate play using the following steps: (a) Manually guide the child to do the action. For example, take the child’s hand, place it on top of the car, and guide him through rolling the car back and forth. (b) Provide praise and reinforcement for “Good playing.” (c) Begin a new trial saying, “Roll car,” and model appropriate play. This time do not provide the physical prompt. If the child imitates play, provide praise and reinforcement. (d) If the child does not imitate, continue prompting using gradually less directive prompts, as outlined below. – Place the child’s hand on the toy (e.g., on top of the car, on the handle of the top). Guide the child through the play action. – Place the child’s hand on the toy. Initiate his play action with the toy, then remove your prompt. For example, help him push the car, but only for a few inches, or lift his hand up while holding the top handle, then remove your prompt. – Simply place the child’s hand on the toy. – Remove all prompts. 3 All Children Can Play: Prompting andfiModeling Procedures tofiTeach Play… 45 You will also have to work up to increase the amount of time that the child can play alone. Keep this in mind so you don’t have unrealistic expectations. This is a gradual process. Immediate removal of an adult’s presence might result in the child using the toy in a stereotypic manner or in a lack of play altogether. Box 3.2 lists the steps to teach simple imitation of functional use of toys. Box 3.2 Teaching Independent Activities Teaching independent activities 1. Present a toy(s) to the child and give an instruction such as “Time to play by yourself.” 2. Gradually remove your presence from the play environment by imple- menting the following fading procedure: (a) After instructing the child to play, scoot your chair back a foot or so. (b) After instructing the child to play, stand up next to your chair. (c) After instructing the child to play, stand by the door. (d) After instructing the child to play, open the door and stand in the doorway. (e) After instructing the child to play, open the door and leave the room. Leave the door open so that you can observe the child and he can see you. (f) After instructing the child to play, leave the room, closing the door behind you. Observe the child