with ASD. In addition to placing peers in proximity of the child with ASD, the teacher also alters the materials or context. For example, the focus child and his/her peers may be placed in an area of the preschool classroom with the focus child’s favorite activities. The presence of preferred materials has been shown to create more opportunities for social interaction (Koegel et al., 2012; Koegel, Kim, Koegel, & Schwartzman, 2013). For example, Roeyers (1996) paired children with ASD with peers of similar age, height, and sex in an effort to reduce social isolation. Using verbal instruction and role play, the peers were taught ways to get the attention of the focus child and ways to respond if the focus child engaged in challenging behavior. Following this train- ing, the peers and the focus children were taken to a playroom with toys and told to do their best to play together. No additional feedback or prompting was provided to the peers. Results showed that peer proximity led to increased responsiveness, 7 Want tofiPlay? Peer-Mediated Intervention forfiYoung Children withfiAutism… 115 increased time spent in social interactions, and more frequent social initiations. Although this study highlights the benefits of peer proximity, it is important to note that while proximity is always a component of PMI, additional peer training and supports may be necessary to lead to positive outcomes for the child with ASD (e.g., Watkins et al., 2015). Peer Initiation In order to teach social skills to students with ASD, teachers and professionals can train typically developing peers to initiate conversation and play activities with their friends with ASD. Peer training for initiation includes direct instruction, modeling, prompting, and reinforcing of appropriate social interaction format. Various types of peer training can be implemented depending on the age group of students, and additional cues for performing their roles (e.g., picture card, script, self-monitoring sheet) can be provided as well. Ganz and Flores (2008) examined the effects of the use of visual strategies with preschool children with ASD and their peers in a play group setting. They trained four typically developing peers to initiate talk and play by introducing peer instruc- tion cards. The peer instruction cards included the following components: (a) to get your friends’ attention, talk to him and hand him a toy, (b) play with the toys your friend is playing with, and (c) when your friend talks, you say something too. Peers were asked to verbally repeat and role play the instruction with an adult. The stu- dents with ASD were also trained to verbally interact with peers by using individu- alized scripts (e.g., “Do you see the purple fish?,” “Let’s decorate the cake.”). During the intervention phase, the peer instruction card was presented on the wall in the play area, and peers were reminded of the directions on the card during 5-min play sessions. Results showed that PMI with visual scripts led to increases in the fre- quency of communication and in the use of context-related statements for the