professional in a face-to-face format in which both parties meet at a specific location. However, with advances in online learning and video conferencing technology, recent research has explored online parent training (McDuffie et al., 2013). Meadan et al. (2016) taught three mothers of young children with ASD to implement naturalistic interventions with their child. The researchers and the mothers met via Skype. During these training sessions, the researcher provided verbal instructions, shared written files with directions for implementing the interventions, shared video demonstrations of the interventions, and helped the mother to create a plan for how she would implement the interven- tion that week. The mothers were given an iPad and were told to video record them- selves implementing the interventions with their child in their home. The mothers then uploaded the videos to an online secure file sharing service. The researcher and the mother bet via Skype twice a week to view and discuss the videos. Parents have been successfully taught to implement interventions with their child with ASD via individual training and coaching sessions or in a group format that can be trained individually or in a small group (Barton & Lissman, 2015). Individual parent training is a training format often utilized by home-based service providers, who meet with parents one to two times per week over 2–6 months (Suppo, 2012). While training procedures vary from family to family, common procedures include direct instruction of intervention strategies using written handouts (Elder, Valcante, Won, & Zylis, 2003; Kashinath et al., 2006; Nunes & Hanline, 2007), modeling of appropriate intervention techniques (Kashinath et al., 2006), and feedback on par- ent’s implementation of intervention (Shire et al., 2016; Solomon, Necheles, Ferch, & Bruckman, 2007). For example, Shire et al. (2016) provided individual weekly coaching to help parents implement a social communication intervention. In the training sessions, trained clinicians modeled the intervention strategies and pro- vided verbal feedback as each parent practiced specific strategies with the child. The training package produced increases in the children’s social communication and play skills during the intervention and at 6-month follow-up. Group training typically involves weekly group instruction sessions for parents at local early intervention agencies (Barton & Lissman, 2015; Gengoux et al., 2015; Hardan et al., 2015). For instance, Hardan et al. (2015) implemented 12 weekly ses- sions of group parent training to teach pivotal response training strategies to improve their children’s functional communications skills. A strategy manual, video exam- ples, and supplemental handouts were used for training. Parents were also given the opportunity to practice at home and received feedback on their implementation of the strategies after viewing their own video recordings of in-home practice sessions. Results indicated that majority of the parents were able to implement pivotal response training strategies with fidelity after 12 weeks (Hardan et al., 2015). A 3-month follow-up indicated that the children maintained their significant gains in the frequency of functional utterances. Teaching and Supporting Parents to Implement Interventions 136 Training Duration The length of time required to train