as milestones. In the behavioral literature, they are referred to as the behavioral cusp (Rosales-Ruiz & Baer, 1997). Behavioral Cusps of Play and Social Skills Behavioral cusps are behavior changes that will lead to the occurrence of many more behaviors, and these behaviors must be deemed as important (Rosales-Ruiz & Baer, 1997). That is, the behavioral cusps create new behaviors that are considered important because they are socially valid. Additionally, the behavioral cusps extend out into the environment and recruit new communities of reinforcement (both posi- tive and negative; reinforcing and punishing) so that new behaviors are formed. This is a watered down definition of behavioral cusps (see Bosch & Fuqua, 2001 or Rosales-Ruiz & Baer, 1997). One important feature of behavioral cusps is that it leads to another cusp. Also, a behavioral cusp might compete and decrease other cusps (ones you do not want). Also, behavioral cusps, unlike developmental mile- stones, are learned behaviors. But it is easy to see how, in the preschool example above, literacy would be a good example of a behavioral cusp: learning the alpha- bet, a behavioral cusp that opens the door for further cognitive development, object identification, and so on. Most importantly (socially valid), it leads to the cusp of reading. Once reading, the child’s world opens up to learning about many other subjects (it even helps in reading music). One cusp begets another. With literacy and doing well in school, a child will stay in school, and the chances of dropping out and getting involved in crime diminish. When we teach play, we are creating a behavioral cusp. While we have already touted the importance of teaching play for plays’ worth alone, the importance of play increases exponentially when we view play as a behavioral cusp. When viewed Behavioral Cusps of Play and Social Skills 160 as a cusp, we can see that play opens up the child with ASD’s world to more behavioral cusps, more socially valid behaviors, decreases unwanted behaviors, and ultimately expands the child’s repertoire. Play behaviors lead to joint attention (e.g., Basso, Charlop, & Gumaer, 2017), language (e.g., Kasari, Gulsrud, Freeman, Paparella, & Hellemann, 2012), turn-taking (e.g., Laski, Charlop, & Schreibman, 1988), and social skills, to name a few. Each of these new behavioral cusps leads to other cusps; joint attention leads to language and further social skills (Kasari, Chang, & Patteson, 2013), language skills lead to cognitive development (Lillard et al., 2013) and social skills, and turn-taking leads to perspective-taking skills (Charlop- Christy & Daneshvar, 2003). Social skills lead to theory of mind skills (Baron- Cohen, Leslie, & Frith, 1985), reading comprehension, friendships and rela- tionships, and employment/vocation skills. Importantly, studies have shown us that those children with ASD, who have more social skills, are less often bullying vic- tims (Chen & Schwartz, 2012). Behavioral cusps have long enduring positive effects upon the behavioral reper- toires of children with ASD. While measuring collateral changes are important, such as decreasing stereotypy by increasing play, these gains tend to