Cohen, D. J. (1985). Compliance, negativism, and the effects of treatment structure in autism: A naturalistic behavioral study. Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry , 26 , 865–877. Vyse, S. (2005). Where do fads come from? In J. W. Jacobson, R. M. Foxx, & J. A. Mulick (Eds.), Controversial therapies for developmental disabilities: Fad fashion and pseudoscience in pro- fessional practice . Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates. Wallen, M. (2012). Weighted vests did not improve competing behaviours or joint attention of 2 years olds with autism spectrum disorder (ASD). Australian Occupational Therapy Journal , 59 , 468–470. Ward, A. (1970). Early infantile autism: Diagnosis, etiology, and treatment. Psychological Bulletin , 73 , 350–362. Wong, C., Odom, S. L., Hume, K., Cox, A. W., Fettig, A., Kucharczyk, S., … Schultz, T. R. (2013). Evidence-based practices for young children, youth, and young adults with Autism Spectrum Disorder . Chapel Hill, NC: The University of North Carolina, Frank Porter Graham Child Development Institute, Autism Evidence-Based Practice Review Group. Wood, T. W. (2017). Does the what works clearinghouse really work? Investigations into issues of policy, practice, and transparency . A National Institute for Direct Instruction White Paper, Office of Research and Evaluation. 2 New Is Not Always Improved: Evidence-Based Practice infiPlay andfiSocial Skills… 33 © Springer International Publishing AG 2018 M.H. Charlop et al., Play and Social Skills for Children with Autism Spectrum Disorder , Evidence-Based Practices in Behavioral Health, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-72500-0_3 Chapter 3 All Children Can Play: Prompting and Modeling Procedures to Teach Play to Children with Autism Spectrum Disorder Why Teach Play? Teaching play to children with ASD is extremely important for several reasons. First, play is one of the earliest behaviors that typically developing children display. These play behaviors are exploratory and functional play (described below) and enable the children to learn about the world. As the children do so, they develop cognitively (Bijou & Baer, 1965). Teaching exploratory and functional play to chil- dren with ASD may also facilitate their cognitive development. Second, it has been shown that play is a precursor behavior to language development in typically devel- oping children (Warreyn, Van der Paelt, & Roeyers, 2014). As we know, children with ASD also show marked deficiencies in speech and language behaviors. Teaching play has been shown to facilitate language (Kasari, Freemans, Paparella, & Jahromi, 2008). Third, joint attention, an important social behavior and another precursor behavior to language, has been taught through play (White et al., 2011). Fourth, many forms of play are socially based behaviors such as cooperative play, sociodramatic play, and group play. Finally, and importantly, research has shown that the presence of play in children with ASD’s repertoires has been associated with better prognosis in treatment outcome (Sherer & Schreibman, 2005) and long- term follow-up (Charlop-Christy & Kuriakose, 2007). The importance of teaching play in terms of facilitating cognitive development, language, joint attention, and treatment responsiveness is clear. Moreover, play is the milieu in which the majority of social interactions between children take place. As the