nurture children’s social and play skills. Two of these strat- egies are discussed briefly. Talk, Talk, and Talk Some More! The more spoken language a child hears during early childhood the better. Hart and Risley (1995) collected longitudinal data in the homes of 42 families with young children from a variety of socioeconomic classes and reported an astonishing asso- ciation between the amount parents talked around their children and the children’s achievements later in life. Specifically, the more words children heard before 3 years of age, the larger their vocabularies and higher their IQ scores were through- out childhood. Further, the children who heard a lot of words before age 3 were more successful in school at 9 years of age. Hart and Risley’s study focused on typi- cal developing children; however, similar results have been reported in studies focused on the amount of speech heard by young children with ASD in the first few years of life (Perryman et al., 2013). Parents and early childcare providers should talk to children as much and often as possible. Reading aloud, singing, and other similar activities should help increase the number of words a child hears. Some parents verbally narrate their actions while caring for their baby as a way to model language, for example, a mother saying “Momma’s changing your diaper” while changing the child’s diaper. This approach, sometimes referred to as linguistic mapping, may be particularly beneficial when parents talk about the child’s current focus of attention, for example, commenting upon the toy a child is manipulating or providing the name of an item the child is reaching for (Perryman et al., 2013; Siller & Sigman, 2008). Attempting to establish joint attention (see Table 1.3) and then talking about whatever the child is focused on is a potentially powerful approach to supporting language and social skill devel- opment (Hancock, Ledbetter-Cho, Lang, & Howell, 2016). Be Responsive to Verbalizations and Communicative Gestures! Children begin making vocalizations early in life by babbling, cooing, and squeal- ing. Letting the child know that they were heard by responding to these early vocal- izations may help teach basic skills that underlie more complex communication and social skills. Ideally, these responses should be related to what the child is 1 More Than Just Fun andfiGames: De nition, Development, andfiIntervention… 13 experiencing at that moment. For example, if a child squeals after knocking over a block tower, a caregiver could be responsive by commenting “blocks crashed!”. Similarly, when a child reaches for an object that is out of reach and then looks to a parent for help, the child’s reach and glance should be considered an effort to com- municate. These gestural forms of communication also create an opportunity for caregivers to facilitate skill development. Specifically, because the caregiver knows what the child wants (whatever is being reached for), this is an opportunity for the caregiver to model the appropriate language (e.g., “bottle please”) and then give the bottle. The natural reinforcement contingency of providing the bottle