multiple baseline, within-subject comparison design, Charlop-Christy et al. (2000) compared the effectiveness of in vivo and video modeling. Two behaviors of similar difficulty were selected for each participant and randomly assigned to be targeted via in vivo or video model- ing. In both conditions, the child observed the targeted behavior (either by watching a live model or a televised clip) and was then instructed to demonstrate that behav- ior. Four of the five children acquired the behaviors targeted by video modeling faster than those targeted by in vivo modeling. For the fifth child, rate of acquisition was the same for both treatment conditions. Further, video modeling was found to lead to better generalization across persons, setting, and stimuli. This increased uti- lization of acquired skills in untrained environments indicates that video modeling interventions are more likely to affect the children’s functioning during their daily routines, which is the ultimate goal of treatments. These findings support the effi- ciency of video modeling interventions. 5 Lights, Camera, Action! Teaching Play and Social Skills to Children with Autism… 77 Additionally, a large body of literature supports the efficacy of using traditional video modeling interventions presented on television screens or computer monitors to increase a range of skills across behavioral domains (Bellini & Akullian, 2007; McCoy & Hermansen, 2007). The following reviews the literature on using video modeling to increase the social-communicative and adaptive skills of children with autism. There is now a robust literature on the use of video modeling in teaching social behaviors to children with autism. Video modeling has been successful in teaching conversational speech (Charlop & Milstein, 1989; Sherer et al., 2001), play-related statements (Taylor et al., 1999), perception of emotion (Corbett & Abdullah, 2005), spontaneous requesting (Wert & Neisworth, 2003), imaginative play (D’Ateno et al., 2003), and perspective-taking skills (Charlop-Christy & Daneshvar, 2003; LeBlanc et al., 2003). However, only four video modeling studies to date have taught basic social initiation skills to children with autism, and none have taught persistence in social initiations. Charlop and Milstein (1989) reported on the successful use of video modeling to teach conversational skills, including social initiations, to three high-functioning children with autism. All children rapidly acquired reciprocal conversational speech through a video modeling intervention, and improvements generalized to other peo- ple and topics. These effects were maintained over a 15-month follow-up period. More recently, Charlop, Dennis, Carpenter, and Greenberg (2010) replicated and expanded upon this finding. In addition, Nikopoulos and Keenan (2003, 2004) demonstrated decreased latency in socially initiating to researchers and increased appropriate play in children with autism using this approach. Nikopoulos and Keenan (2007) also found that video modeling was effective in building sequential social skills that included social initia- tions. While it is important to recognize that none of these studies taught child par- ticipants what to do if their peer was unresponsive, it seems promising to use video modeling to teach persistence in initiations of play bids to children with autism. These studies suggest that video modeling has been