you attempt to teach a child with ASD to say a specific phrase and the child gets quite confused? Sometimes, the child might repeat exactly what you tell him. For example, you might model a phrase for him such as “Say, may I have the ball” which results with the response, “Say, may I have the ball.” Or, maybe the child responds with your instruction “Tell Johnny you want to play” while either looking at Johnny or looking at you. Perhaps the child says, “You want to play” or “you want a turn.” Sometimes the child may think that you are talking to him/her Scripts 98 and not prompting a conversational phrase. You may model just the phrase, such as “It’s my turn to go, Johnny,” to which the child is utterly confused because he knows it is his turn. At this point, the child is not likely to say anything at all. I am reminded of a time when I was interviewing a teen with ASD who had early intervention. One of many things she told me was that when she was young and her speech was getting better, she couldn’t figure out why sometimes she repeated phrases and she received praise, while at other times her therapists responded with “no echoing.” She couldn’t tell the difference between imitation and immediate echolalia and under what con- ditions it was acceptable to repeat a verbalization and what conditions it was not. Table 6.3 How to make visual activity schedules How to make a visual activity schedule—easy version 1. Take pictures with a digital camera or smartphone and download to your computer. 2. Print the pictures. 3. Cut out the pictures and glue or tape them to paper. You may make a written label if you want and paste (tape) to the paper. 4. Laminate the pictures. If you don’t have a laminator, use any kind of plastic covering (pocket in notebooks, photo-books). 5. Put Velcro on the back of the pictures. 6. Laminate a larger piece of paper or put in plastic pocket of notebook. This will be the background for the visual activity schedule. How to use a visual activity schedule for independent play 1. Make sure you prepare your photos and paste them or Velcro them to your schedule book ahead of time (or download them to your iPad). 2. Have your play items available near the child. 3. Present the visual activity schedule (e.g., notebook) and provide your instruction “Time to play!” 4. Prompt the child to open the schedule (book) and look at the first play activity (e.g., puzzle). 5. Wait for the child to get the puzzle (or point to the puzzle as a prompt) and wait as the child completes the puzzle. (Note: When first using a visual activity schedule, make sure you have selected highly preferred play items and ones that the child can do independently; the lesson here is to use the activity schedule, not to learn how to do the puzzle).