most research studies have used direct verbal instruction to explain the rationale and importance of the intervention in combination with other strategies (Chan et al., 2009). For exam- ple, Kalyva and Avramidis (2005) taught 25 preschoolers to participate in the “Circle of Friends” curriculum with five children with ASD. During the training the teachers explained to the peers (without the focus child present) that the purpose of the program was to help the child learn to ask a friend to play. 7 Want tofiPlay? Peer-Mediated Intervention forfiYoung Children withfiAutism… 113 In some studies, peers were given an overview of ASD to help them anticipate behaviors the focus child might engage in and to help set expectations for interac- tions. Roeyers (1996) incorporated videos of three children with ASD into the peer training session to expose peers to children with varying levels of support needs. Rather than focusing on a specific disability or child, Laushey and Heflin (2000) conducted a 15-min lesson with the entire kindergarten classroom prior to the PMI. In the lesson children were asked to reflect on their own unique characteris- tics, to consider that all people share similarities and have differences, and to under- stand the importance of interacting with people who have different characteristics. Teachers may engage the peers in discussion to brainstorm ways to initiate inter- action with the focus child, topics to discuss with the child, or toys and games to play with the child. Though discussion has most commonly been applied with chil- dren who are in elementary school or older (e.g., Brady, Shores, McEvoy, Ellis, & Fox, 1987; Lee et al., 2007; Thiemann & Goldstein, 2004), some studies (e.g., Odom & Strain, 1986) have implemented discussion with preschool-aged peers. Peer training also typically includes live or video modeling of strategies. Storey et al. (1993) taught 16 typically developing preschoolers to initiate social interac- tion with a child with ASD. The teachers first verbally described how the peers should obtain the focus child’s attention (e.g., “One way to get your friend’s atten- tion is to hand him a toy and say, ‘here’”). The teachers then modeled how to get a child’s attention (e.g., “Watch me share with Bobby. First I get his attention by handing him a toy and saying, ‘here’”). Strasberger and Ferreri (2014) used video modeling to teach peers to use a communication device with a child with ASD. Following a model of the appropriate behaviors, many studies incorporate opportunities for practice and role play. This allows the peer to practice the skills in a simulated environment and to receive performance feedback before interacting with the focus child. Role play also allows the peers to encounter and work through potential challenges, such as an unresponsive focus child (Bass & Mulick, 2007). Kamps et al. (2014) trained kindergarten and first-grade peers to initiate and respond to social interactions with children with ASD during structured play activities. The training sessions included verbal instruction of target social interaction skills fol- lowed by child and