therapists used a manual and curriculum to train parents to implement Brief Literature Review 134 ESDM strategies within daily activities such as play, feeding, and bathing. The intervention sessions were conducted 2 h per session, twice a day, and 5 days per week. Parents could choose goals that they deemed as high priority and implement corresponding strategies. At the end of the 2-year intervention, significant increases in cognitive, communication, and socialization abilities were observed in children in the ESDM treatment group as compared to those in the business-as-usual group. Rogers and colleagues (2006) compared two models of parent-implemented communication intervention and evaluated their impact on children between 1 and 6 years of age. One model is the Denver Model, which employs a combination of behavioral, developmental, and relationship-oriented approaches, while the other is the Prompts for Restructuring Oral Muscular Phonetic Targets (PROMPT) model, which employs a neurodevelopmental approach to enhance speech production (Rogers et al., 2006). Parents were given the autonomy to decide the daily routines in which they would like to incorporate intervention strategies and spent approxi- mately 30 min per day to implement the strategies they learned via videos and inter- active sessions with the therapists. Both treatments resulted in similar outcomes possibly due to their common features such as the focus on shared attention, use of naturalistic communication, matching activities to child’s developmental level, and highly structured and active involvement of parents in the treatment procedures. The child participants in both treatment groups displayed improvement in integrated use of both verbal and nonverbal communication (i.e., imitation, functional play). Teaching and Supporting Parents to Implement Interventions Before parents can implement interventions, training in specific practices must be provided (Lane et al., 2016). Though parent training models vary across the litera- ture, they share some common features such as focusing on a specific intervention or small set of interventions, opportunities for parents to practice the target interven- tion and receive feedback, and coaching (Kaiser & Hancock, 2003). In this section we provide an overview of research-based parent training practices. Training Structure Parent training can occur in the family’s home, at a location in the community, at an intervention clinic or school, or across a combination of these locations (Brown & Woods, 2015). Much of the parent training research has focused on teaching parents in their homes (Barton & Fettig, 2013). Decades of behavioral research show that we should teach a skill in the setting in which the skill is to be used. Since parents will implement interventions within the context of family routines at home, it makes sense that parent training occurs in the home as well. In some cases, travel to the 8 The Power offlParents: Parent-Implemented Interventions forflYoung Children… 135 family’s home may not be feasible or welcomed. In those instances, parent training may need to take place in a clinical setting with a plan to help the parents generalize their new skills to their home routines (Grahame et al., 2015). Traditionally, parents have been trained by