with the peer- mediated intervention. Today, PMI has been established as an evidence-based prac- tice for teaching social interaction and communication skills to young children with ASD (Chang & Locke, 2016; Fettig, 2013; Wong et al., 2014). In PMI trained peers serve as intervention agents and are taught various behav- iors such as delivering instructions, modeling socially appropriate behaviors, responding to social attempts of students with ASD, and reinforcing target behav- iors. PMI is typically implemented within classroom routines such as free play cen- ters, outdoor play, and snack time (Prizant, Wetherby, & Rydell, 2000). Peers may be taught to support a child with ASD in a specific activity, to engage in conversa- tion with the child with ASD, and to partner with the child during play (Chan et al., 2009; Disalvo & Oswald, 2002; Katz & Girolametto, 2013; Mason et al., 2014). Peers may form one-on-one dyads with the child with ASD or interact with the child within a small group setting (Mason et al., 2014). Peers are usually the same age as or slightly older than the child with ASD (Chan et al., 2009). PMI research has taken place in a variety of settings including during recess on the playground (Mason et al., 2014), during lunch in the school cafeteria (Koegel et al., 2012), and in special education classrooms (e.g., Radley et al., 2015), general education classrooms (e.g., Ganz & Flores, 2008), and inclusive preschools (e.g., Watkins et al., 2015). Previous studies have suggested PMI can be a beneficial program for individuals with ASD for several reasons. First, peers are readily accessible within school and community settings. With peers serving as interventionists, the number of teaching opportunities increases beyond those which the teacher is able to offer alone. In addition, peers can serve as age-appropriate models of desired social behaviors. PMI may also facilitate a positive inclusive classroom environment. Through direct training and coaching, peers are able to learn how they can socially communicate and interact with their classmates with ASD. Trained peers are also more likely to initiate social interactions and to develop social relationships as a result of these repeated social interactions with children with ASD. These repeated social interac- tions allow children with ASD to have ongoing opportunities not only to practice learned social skills in natural settings but also to generalize their acquired skills across different peers and contexts. PMI may also be beneficial for the neurotypical peers. Although PMI may involve removing the peer from some of their own instruc- tion time, particularly in grade school settings, peers may develop important social skills themselves. In particular, previous research has found that PMI can lead to increased empathy, friendship skills, and leadership qualities (Carter, Cushing, Clark, & Kennedy, 2005; Kamps et al., 1998; Kamps, Barbetta, Leonard, & Delquadri, 1994). Elementary school children who have served as peer inter- ventionists have reported increased acceptance of children with disabilities and more favorable expectations for future interactions with children with ASD (Kamps et al., 1998). Background and