develop and sustain joint engagement and increase joint attention gestures and play skills for toddlers and preschoolers (Kasari et al., 2015). In one JASPER study, Kasari et al. (2015) coached parents to implement several strategies not only to engage children in play but at the same time facilitate the use of social communica- tion gestures and spoken words. The intervention was conducted two sessions per week, over 10 weeks. At the beginning, parents received coaching on identifying the child’s development level of play and use of social communication gestures. In each 30-min coaching sessions, parents interacted with the child while receiving coach- ing from the interventionist. As a result of the intervention, the children showed significant growth in joint attention skills as well as in developmental level; there was an approximately 17-month gain in receptive language and 10-month gain in expressive language over a period of 9 months. Verbal Communication Parent-implemented intervention fits nicely with natural- istic teaching strategies to improve their child’s communication skills (see Chap. 4 of this book for more on naturalistic teaching strategies) . Parents have successfully implemented interventions to improve their children’s verbal communication skills (Kashinath et al., 2006). Often interventions have focused on teaching children to request for desired objects or activities, to comment or label items in the environ- ment, or to engage in appropriate communication to replace challenging behaviors. Kaiser et al. (2000) taught six parents how to implement EMT in order to increase their child’s spontaneous verbal communication as well as the complexity of the child’s verbal communication. Following individual training sessions at a clinic, the parents generalized their use of EMT to their home routines with their child. With the parent-implemented EMT intervention, all six children increased the spontane- ous communication and the diversity of their utterances. These results generalized to the home environment and maintained at follow-up observations for four of the six participants. Simacek et al. (2017) taught three families to replace their child’s challenging behavior with appropriate communication. The families participated in online train- ing and coaching. The parents were taught to complete an assessment to determine what their child was communicating through challenging behavior. Then the parents were taught to implement functional communication training (Carr & Durand, 1985) to teach their child an appropriate way to communicate that served the same purpose as their challenging behavior. For all three families, parents learned to implement the intervention accurately, challenging behavior decreased, and the children’s appropriate communication increased. Parent-Implemented Intervention Improves Child Outcomes 140 Augmentative and Alterative Communication For children with no or limited verbal language, parents have been taught to implement augmentative and alterna- tive communication systems including speech generating devices (Sigafoos et al., 2004), manual sign (Casey, 1978), and picture exchange systems (Chaabane, Alber- Morgan, & DeBar, 2009). Park, Alber-Morgan, and Cannella-Malone (2011) trained parents to implement the Picture Exchange Communication System (PECS; Bondy & Frost, 1994) to increase independent communicative behaviors of their children with ASD aged 2–3. Parents in this study were trained to