tasks, reinforcer preference assessments, and so on). A child will need to learn behaviors that he may not choose to or indicate a desire to learn. The child can exert choice and control over the treatment setting, but they cannot exert final decision over what is on their curriculum or IEP. Professionals and parents decide on this. But the children can lend their voices on what is happening, at present, and this will increase their motivation. We determine what they need to learn, but they can determine some of the specifics. 4 Keeping It Real: Naturalistic Teaching Strategies (NaTS) forfiPlay andfiSocial Skills… 59 categorized several ways to promote generalization, and NaTS incorporates many of these discussed below. A better method than sequential modification is to train sufficient exemplars. With this approach, you would use multiple sets of cards, multiple playmates, and multiple settings from the start of treatment. None of the work required after treat- ment would be necessary, and it is thought that if you trained sufficient exemplars, only a few would be needed (Stokes, Baer, & Jackson, 1974). The motivation- enhancing techniques seem to overlap here because varying the tasks and task stim- uli is not only increasing motivation but also increasing the number of exemplars and thereby improving the chances of generalization. Making the treatment setting more similar to the natural environment (Stokes & Baer, 1977) is a core component of NaTS. A play setting is one that is more likely to be in the child’s natural environment. Playing a real card game, one you would find in the child’s environment, (buy one at the local toy store where peers are likely to get similar games), further enhances the similarity between treatment setting and the natural environment. Stokes and Baer (1977) pointed out the importance of using naturally maintain- ing contingencies (natural reinforcers) during treatment. This will also make the treatment setting more like the natural environment. Reinforcers should be similar to those that could be encountered in natural settings. Additionally, specific behav- iors that are more likely to acquire such reinforcers should be taught (Carr, 1979). A social phrase is a good example because the social phrase, such as a greeting, is a functional behavior that is likely to obtain a natural reinforcer—a greeting will be returned. See Box 4.4 for additional tips of reinforcing generalization. Using common stimuli is one of the easiest provisions for promoting generaliza- tion as delineated by Stokes and Baer (1977). When teaching play behaviors to children with ASD, use toys and task stimuli that can be purchased at any chain toy store or any typical online store. This increases the likelihood of the treatment activ- ities and items being available in the natural environment. There are two important points here. At many conferences and on certain websites, “special” toys and edu- cational stimuli are sold indicating that these items are “better” for children with ASD. There is no scientific evidence that these special toys are better. However, (1) they often