associated with rapid acqui- sition rates and strong generalization results to teach social initiation behaviors to children with autism. Additionally, with current-day technological advances, it seems that there are now means that are even more advantageous than traditional video modeling using TV or computer monitors. That is, with portable technology, video modeling can be done more easily and be presented in a variety of environ- ments. In other words, we can bring the video modeling technology to the children as opposed to bringing the children to the technology. Also, in this way, children with autism can practice persistence in social initiations in typical play settings around their peers without fear of social stigma. The present study incorporated the use of an iTouch portable appliance to provide video modeling to four children with autism and teach them persistence in social initiations of bids to play with neurotypical peers. Persistence in making social ini- tiations of bids to play was recorded as well as generalization and follow- up of bid making across children and setting. The social validity of the children’s behavior was evaluated to assess the clinical significance of the children’s behavioral gains. Visual Strategies and Video Modeling 78 Social-communicative skills Video modeling has been used to address a variety of social-communicative skills. One study used video modeling to increase the conver- sational speech of three children with autism (Charlop & Milstein, 1989). During baseline, the children only spoke in short phrases. Following intervention, the chil- dren were able to engage in conversations with phrases of up to eight words. Further, the children increased their conversational speech when discussing new topics and interacting with different conversational partners in novel settings, maintaining their gains 15 months after intervention was completed. Sherer et al. (2001) also used video modeling procedures to increase the conversational speech of children with autism. In addition to increasing conversational speech, video modeling has been used to effectively promote variation in conversational speech (Charlop et al., 2008). After watching video clips consisting of multiple conversational topics, the children with autism demonstrated more variation in their own conversation. Video modeling has also increased other communicative behaviors. Nikopoulos and Keenan (2007) used video modeling to target verbal and gestural play initia- tions. After watching the videos, all three participants increased their social initia- tions. Gains were maintained as long as 3 months following intervention. Video modeling procedures also effectively increased the spontaneous verbal requests of young children with autism (Wert & Neisworth, 2003). Another study found that video modeling increased the functional mands (i.e., verbal behavior that specifies a desired outcome) demonstrated by children with autism and that children general- ized observed gains (Plavnick & Ferren, 2011). Buggey (2005) used video model- ing to target a number of social behaviors, including language and social initiations. The intervention effectively increased the children’s demonstration of the targeted behaviors, and gains were maintained several months following intervention. Cardon and Wilcox (2011) utilized video modeling to effectively increase the imita- tions skills of three boys