the child cannot observe this model on the screen, then he/she is not a candidate for video modeling. Also, since the child will be imitating the behavior of the model, the child must have basic nonverbal or verbal imitation skills, depend- ing upon what behaviors are to be modeled. Thus, the prerequisite skills for video modeling are (1) prior history of viewing screens, (2) ability to focus attention and sustain attention to the screen for a short period of time, and (3) imitation skills. It is important to note that the assumption about prior viewing of screens is that the child enjoys viewing! Video modeling should be a fun alternative to traditional treatment paradigms. Also, while a child may have all the prerequisites, the bottom line is that we won’t know if VM is right for a child until we try it. Remember that the evidence base shows us that the prepon- derance of research studies has included participants ranging from moderate to high functioning. Only a few studies have included children with ASD who were described as being on the lower end of the spectrum. So while it is possible for children with How to Do Video Modeling 82 ASD who are considered lower functioning to learn via VM, this should be kept in mind. As well, prerequisite skills are needed depending upon the target behavior in mind. For example, if a child is nonverbal, don’t expect her to be able to learn con- versational speech from VM. However, it is possible that a nonverbal child may learn beginning sounds from VM. Or, if a child is just at the level of functional toy play, then he is not likely to learn complex cooperative play skills with other children such as board games. Remember that VM is not a magic bullet (there are no magic bullets in autism treatment). However, video modeling may be successful, whereas other treatments have failed for the reasons discussed above. This brings us to the next section of choosing target behaviors. Choose a Target Behavior The target behavior you choose is the play or social skill to be acquired by the child. Determining the target behavior will depend on many variables such as the child’s functioning level, verbal ability, skills already in his/her repertoire, tasks on the IEP or other program curricula, parent interviews, teachers and therapists’ interviews, and other various guidelines. There may be prerequisite skills necessary for the child in addition to the attention skills. Also, the behaviors should have social valid- ity and be useful to the child in his/her life. For example, the social skill of “man- ners” may be a request of the child’s parents, but may not be of utmost importance to a child who does not know basic peer interaction skills. Knowing how to priori- tize social skills and play is important when choosing target behaviors. A card game may be an appropriate goal for a 10-year-old child with ASD, but a particular child may not have