not directly related to a treat- ment’s actual effectiveness (Leong & Carter, 2008). Simply put, it does not matter how consistently and accurately one implements an ineffective treatment. Consideration of nonscientific sources and treatment characteristics not directly related to treatment effectiveness is not limited to parents. Using an interview com- parable to Green’s (2007), another group of researchers examined special education teachers’ and administrators’ perspectives regarding evidence-based practices (Greenway, McCollow, Hudson, Peck, & Davis, 2013). Responses to the interview questions revealed a sincere desire to use effective practices and an understanding that evidence-based practices should be used. However, beliefs about what consti- tutes “evidence” and the criteria for classifying a practice as evidence-based varied considerably across teachers. Anecdotal testimonials, personal experiences, and the intuitive appeal of the intervention procedures were identified as primary consider- ations by many teachers. Overall, these variables are emphasized by both parents and teachers when considering treatment options for children with ASD (e.g., Borders, Bock, & Szymanski, 2015; Carson, 2014). Research aimed at reducing the research-to-practice gap is being conducted with increasing frequency. For example, research aimed at improving the acceptability (intuitive appeal of interventions, sometimes referred to as social validity) of inter- ventions has become more common. Callahan, Henson, and Cowan (2008) pro- vided teachers, parents, and school administrators with a social validation survey and identified specific intervention characteristics valued by respondents (e.g., treatment involves active collaboration and focuses on long-term outcomes) and recommended these qualities be considered when evaluating existing ASD interven- Factors that Influence Treatment Selection 30 tions and in the creation of improved intervention approaches. Further, efforts to educate teachers, parents, and other ASD stakeholders regarding the importance of evidence-based practice and/or on how to implement those practices have also become more common (e.g., Lang, Machalicek, Rispoli, & Regester, 2009; Lerman, Vorndran, Addison, & Kuhn, 2004; Machalicek, Lang, & Raulston, 2015; Rispoli, Neely, Lang, & Ganz, 2011). In keeping with this effort, this text focuses on inter- ventions that have accumulated the most compelling and rigorous evidence base and should serve as a resource for those who seek to provide effective evidence- based interventions to improve the play and social skills of children with ASD. Summary Points • Before there was sufficient research evidence to indicate otherwise, children with the most severe intellectual and developmental disabilities (including many with ASD) were often considered to be uneducable. • Researchers demonstrated that all children can learn and the evidence base involving the education and treatment of children with autism became more robust. • Evidence-based practices are those that have been sufficiently demonstrated to be effective in multiple rigorous studies replicated by more than one research team. • The evidence-based practice movement began in medicine and is now well underway in the fields of psychology and education. • A number of specific evidence-based practices that can be used to improve the social and play skills of children with ASD have been identified by three separate review groups, and those practices are covered in subsequent chapters