They initially grouped studies as either comprehensive treat- ment models (treatment packages intended to address a broad range of developmen- tal goals and skills) or focused intervention practices (designed to address a single skill area or domain of functioning). For the same reason we omitted “Comprehensive Behavioral Treatment for Young Children” in the overview of the NSP’s evidence- based practices, only Focused Intervention Practices on the NPDC’s list were con- sidered. The same criteria used by the NPDC (described earlier) were used to qualify a treatment as an evidence-based practice by this group. Overall, the Autism Evidence-Based Practice Review Group identified 465 stud- ies out of the 1000+ that were screened for inclusion in their review. Of those 465, 165 studies focused on social skills and 77 studies focused on play. A total of 27 treatments met the criteria for evidence-based practice of which 23 had been dem- onstrated to be effective in improving play and social skills. Those 23 treatments are presented in Table 2.3. Summary of Three Evidence-Based Practice Reviews We have now presented an overview of three different groups that have utilized vari- ous definitions and criteria for determining if a treatment can be classified as an evidence practice. Despite the different definitions, criteria, and review procedures used by the NPDC, the NSP, and the Autism Evidence-Based Practice Review Group, there is a great deal of consistency in what types of treatments were identi- fied as evidence-based. Across Tables 2.1, 2.2, and 2.3, the treatments that consis- tently emerged as evidence-based included (a) modeling and video modeling, (b) systematic prompting and prompt fading, (c) visual supports and activity schedules, (d) naturalistic teaching strategies, and (e) peer-mediated strategies. Further, key intervention components such as reinforcement and extinction were identified either as stand-alone practices or as components within evidence-based treatment pack- ages by all three groups. Identifying Evidence-Based Practices for Children with ASD 28 We selected the treatment approaches covered in subsequent chapters of this text based on the findings of the three evidence-based practice reviews discussed in the chapter. Specifically, basic modeling and prompting procedures are covered in Chap. 3; naturalistic teaching strategies are detailed in Chap. 4; video modeling is presented in Chap. 5; and visual strategies including scripts and activity sched- ules are discussed in Chap. 6. The other intervention components identified across the three evidence-based practice reviews (e.g., reinforcement, extinction, and behavioral packages) are discussed as components within the intervention pack- ages covered in other chapters. Chapters 7 and 8 discuss peer-mediated and parent- implemented interventions, respectively. Although peer-mediated strategies are identified as evidence- based practices in all three reviews and parent-implemented intervention is identified in two reviews, those strategies might best be considered intervention- delivery mechanisms as opposed to unique intervention packages in their own right. For example, parents are often trained to implement naturalistic teaching strategies, and research has demonstrated that peers can be trained to implement many of the treatments identified as evidence-based (e.g., peer model- ing). However, in some cases, parents