blocks, a physical prompt would involve the therapist placing his/her hand over the child’s hand to guide reaching, grasping, placing, and releasing a block onto another block. Physical prompts can be used across a continuum of intrusiveness from full assistance, to a light touch, to no assistance at all. For example, fading physical prompts might involve physically moving the child in the right direction but not completing the task for them. For example, if the demand is “roll car,” a faded prompt would be moving the child’s hand toward the car and then allowing the child to roll it on his own Proximity Children often need corresponding items to complete a play activity. For example, puzzles involve several pieces. Similarly, pretend baby play might require a bottle, a bib, and a blanket. Therefore, locating and choosing the correct items can be paramount for play participation. Children with ASD often need prompts to locate the correct items Gestures A gestural prompt is when the instructor gestures toward the correct response. For example, if a play partner requests a car or a puzzle piece, the therapist may point to the location of the toy as a prompt for the child to find it Verbal prompts Verbal modeling A verbal model prompt is when a therapist says the correct verbalization for the child. For example, if the expectation is for the child to make motor sounds while rolling a car, the therapist might provide a model of the full verbalization by saying “Vrooom!” and have the child repeat the statement. Gradually, the therapist will want the child to make the play statement with more independence. A therapist can fade assistance by modeling less of the phrase to only the beginning part of the word or phrase and allowing the child to finish it. For example, if the child is expected to say “ready, set, go!” to initiate a car race down a ramp, a faded verbal prompt would be saying “Rrr” to cue the student to say the remainder of the phrase Play Interventions 44 Independent Activities Independent play is a difficult behavior to teach because often children with ASD have difficulty staying engaged with toys when there is no supervision. Toy choice is important so make sure you have highly preferred toys that have been selected from a preference assessment. Also, you will want to select toys that the child will likely require time to play with. For example, coloring in a coloring book is a good activity for independent play. Here the child can color several pages that may take time, as opposed to several cars that the child may not linger on. A puzzle with many pieces, or several puzzles, is another good example. A building toy, such as blocks, Legos, or Play-Doh, which may keep the child’s interest is also a good example. Box 3.1 Teaching Imitation of Functional Toy Play Teaching imitation of functional toy play 1. Make eye contact with the child. You then say the appropriate