an opportunity to practice or role play. The interventionist should provide feedback Box 7.2 Selecting Peers • Strong social skills • Age-appropriate language skills • Follows directions • Good attendance • Positive history with focus child 7 Want tofiPlay? Peer-Mediated Intervention forfiYoung Children withfiAutism… 121 including behavior-specific praise of behaviors the peers engaged in correctly and corrective feedback for errors the peers made. For example, “You did a great job walking over to Sean and asking him to play with you. Remember to give him a few seconds to answer you before you begin playing.” Interventionists will need to determine when the peer training will take place. Peers can be trained in advance of the PMI sessions, coached during the sessions, or a combination of these two. If the interventionist decides to provide PMI training in advance, the time between the training and the actual PMI session should be mini- mized. If training is conducted well in advance of the PMI session, the intervention- ist should provide a brief booster session to help prime the peer behaviors to be used in PMI. This could be a quick role play session with performance feedback or sim- ply a verbal reminder of what the peer should do during the session. It may also be helpful to offer cues during the PMI sessions. Using visual sup- ports to prompt peer behaviors is one way to provide cues without disrupting the interactions between peers and the focus child. Visual supports could include a pic- ture schedule illustrating the sequence of behaviors the peer should engage in, a written script, or a reminder card with a picture of two children interacting (see Fig. 7.1). For some children, more intrusive prompts may be necessary for them to implement PMI correctly. In those cases, the interventionist may verbally cue the peer to engage in a specific behavior with the focus child. For example, the interven- tionist may lean over to the peer and say, “Remember to stay, play, and talk with Charlie during centers.” A list of initial training procedures is provided in Box 7.3. How Will Peers Be Provided with Feedback? It is important to remember that just like adult interventionists, children may require ongoing support and feedback as they gain experience implementing PMI. This means the interventionist should observe all PMI sessions and provide praise when peers implement PMI well, prompts to remind peers of what they should do during the sessions, and error cor- rection when the peers make a mistake during the session. Providing behavior- specific praise to peers will help peers learn exactly what they are doing well and what they should continue to do during PMI. For example, rather than making a general praise statement such as “Nice work, Jorge,” the interventionist would describe exactly what Jorge did well by saying, “Jorge, you did a great job showing Charlie how to play with the blocks today!” For some children, it may also be help- ful to include additional reinforcement, such as