enjoyable, which leads to better outcomes. Below are specific ways to increase motivation used in NaTS. These all have a strong evidence base, facilitate the child to reach learning outcomes, and make the process of learning easier and more pleasant for both the child and change agent. Task Variation One way to motivate children with ASD during a NaTS is to vary the tasks that are presented. Some common teaching procedures call for a “massed trial” approach where the same task is presented several times consecutively, often ten discrete times (Lovaas, 1977). There is a rationale for using this rehearsal for- mat. Repetition and rehearsal can aid memory and retention and, purportedly, this facilitates learning. Also, when plotting data, it is much easier to deal with blocks of ten trials when calculating percentages. However, such redundancy in teaching can cause some negative side effects that do not promote learning and can decrease motivation. First, there may be a boredom effect when the same task is presented over and over. Second, if the task is a new task, referred to as an acquisition task , this may take some time for the child to learn. If reinforcement occurs after each correct response, it may be a while before a child earns a reinforcer, and therefore Three Basic Components of NaTS 56 this may induce frustration and lead to escape-motivated behaviors. Third, being presented with a task that may be too difficult, with a low probability of earning reinforcement, may cause behavior problems such as tantrums, aggression, SIB, and so on. Finally, this type of instruction has been criticized for leading to “rote” learning and memorization, which does not generalize well. Task variation can remediate these issues. Task variation is the interspersing of the new tasks (acquisition tasks) with old, previously learned tasks (referred to as maintenance tasks). It is that simple; and you have solved the problems mentioned above and increased motivation. Thus, while learning a new skill, which is potentially difficult, the response-reinforcer ratio is higher than if reinforcers were provided for only acquisition tasks. This is true even if non-tangible (attention only) reinforcers are provided for maintenance tasks (Charlop, Kurtz, & Milstein, 1993). Guidance on varying tasks is offered in Box 4.1. Box 4.1 How to Do Task Variation How to do task variation 1. Do a preference assessment to determine items of high interest to the child. Gather your items (toys, task stimuli) for both acquisition task (new task to be taught) and maintenance task (previously learned task). 2. Present two to three trials or episodes of the acquisition task, and then present a maintenance task and then two or three more of the acquisition task. For reinforcers, use the preferred items, praise, or, depending on the task, a desired treat. 3. Keep in mind that maintenance consists of any previously learned task, even basic tasks like gaining eye contact, a quick play imitation task (press a button on a cause-effect toy), and so on. The variation should