went back and did a careful study of his video and noticed that his two models were both wearing bright orange shirts. We thought that maybe the child was not identifying with the models speaking the conversa- tional phrases and therefore not learning. So we reshot the video making sure that 5 Lights, Camera, Action! Teaching Play and Social Skills to Children with Autism… 89 the models were wearing plain clothes but of different colors. The child quickly reached learning criterion! Sometimes mistakes like these aren’t realized until the final run-through of the video. For example, during one video modeling study, we noticed that a video had been made to teach geometric shapes but that two shapes were the same size and one was a different size. These small differences can become big obstacles to learn- ing. These are mistakes you want to try and catch during filming. Also, before film- ing, you will want to have a few rehearsals to make sure everything goes smoothly. When filming commences, it is a good idea to start big and frame the setting. Give the child the big picture and what and who is in the video. Then you want to zoom in so that the behavior is isolated. While this isn’t done in everyone’s video modeling research, it is what is recommended here. Zooming can be awkward, take time, and be a pain, but it can take off sessions of learning time so I strongly recom- mend it. When teaching social behaviors, it is important to highlight eye contact, even if it is not the target behavior. For example, if you are teaching a greeting, as mentioned earlier, you may want to teach by the door. You would start out present- ing the entire setting, zoom in and out when necessary, but include eye contact in addition to “Hi”. Below is a sample script (Box 5.6). Intervention Watch the finished video with the child in a room with minimal distractions. Ideally, this would be an uninteresting room (no toys) with only a monitor (TV, computer monitor, iPad) and no other people (siblings, other classmates). The monitor should be placed at the eye level of the participant. There is conflicting research in the lit- erature as to whether or not to use an iPad (Miltenberger & Charlop, 2015). That is, it may be too distracting to use an iPad as the method of video modeling delivery or it may be fine; it depends on the child. We have found that in some cases it can be successful (Macpherson et al., 2015), but we have also had to limit the iPad’s use because some children tend to want to hold it and try to find their favorite movies Box 5.6: Script for Car Wash Toy Play Script of greeting “Hi” upon arrival Model 1: Model of teacher standing by open door. Camera: Filming starts of teacher by the door. Model 2: Model of child walks up to teacher. Camera: Camera zooms in on