down the buttons on the cause-effect toy, alternating between the various buttons so that each of the five different buttons is pushed and that after each button is pushed, the child also closes back the pop-up mechanism.” Finally, for a completely different look at an operational definition of independent play, for another child it might be “playing a video game as per the rules of the game for 3 min consecutively” or “playing with pretend food in a func- tional manner so that the child uses the food items as they were designed to be used: (a) preparing a food item such as making a sandwich; (b) pretend eating of a food item; (c) feeding a food item to an appropriate recipient such as a doll, puppet, or stuffed animal; or (d) packing up the food items in a bag.” Clearly, operational defi- nitions are individual child specific and can be easily observed so that they are eas- ily measured. In the section above, a “matching card game” for one child is matching two cards of like color from five pairs of cards, while for another child it is playing a rummy game with half a deck. The operational definition is also measurable and observable. This means that we break down the target behavior into terms that we can count in some way (measure) and clearly see (observe). We can easily determine if the behavior is occurring by How to Do Video Modeling 84 watching the child. Now that we have a target behavior that is clearly operational, we can easily move on with making the video for VM. Also, should someone want to replicate this VM program, the target behavior needs to be clear enough so others will be able to do it. One can also see how two children with the same goal may differ in the videos they may need. Finally, it will be easy to tell whether or not the video clearly depicts the target behavior and whether the child is imitating the desired behavior. So, operational behaviors may be seen as the foundation of treat- ment for children with ASD. We need to focus first and foremost on the behavior and know exactly what it is, what it looks like, and how we define and measure it. Task Analysis One quick step before we make our script for the video is to break down the opera- tional definition into a task analysis. This is merely writing out the steps of the target behavior as defined. The task analysis further breaks down the behavior into its component parts and teaching steps, so that we would be able to model each step. Now consider the above example of using a cause-effect toy and pushing its but- tons. The operational definition of independent play used in the example above is that the child is to push down the buttons that are on the toy. So, our task analysis must be a step-by-step breakdown of how to use this