stimulation (automatic reinforcement; Fig. 1.1) obtained from sensorimotor play likely contribute to learning to reach, grasp, and crawl. Later in childhood, most children begin to engage in functional play wherein they imitate others (often parents) by using toys that resemble real objects in a man- ner consistent with the objects’ function, for example, feeding a doll with a toy bottle (Lang et al., 2009). The extent to which functional play is reinforced by socially mediated contingencies such as praise (e.g., “Wow, you’re feeding your baby just like Momma does!”), some form of nonsocial automatic reinforcement that does not rely on input from others, or a combination of socially mediated and automatic reinforcement is not clear. Regardless of the reinforcement contingencies involved, functional play clearly provides children opportunities to imitate the behavior of others and provides parents, caregivers, and interventionists with oppor- tunities to model developmentally and contextually appropriate skills and language (Freeman & Kasari, 2013; Pierucci, 2016). By the time most children are 4 years old, they will have started engaging in symbolic and pretend play that involves imagining that an object is a different object, that a missing object is present, and/or that objects or people have attributes they actually lack. Further, toddlers will integrate these skills in various ways such that characters, events, and toys fit together within a play scheme. The acquisition of pretend play skills is truly an awesome achievement in early childhood! Consider, for example, the remarkably complex repertoire of skills and cognitive processes that must be involved when a child pretends a hairbrush is a microphone and that the living room couch is a stage as they sing to a crowd of stuffed animals and dolls. In terms of the acquisition of advanced abstract thinking, problem-solving, and other sophisticated cognitive skills, the role of pretend play is currently a subject of debate. Specifically, it remains unclear whether pretend play is (a) an essential and irreplaceable experience that drives ongoing cognitive development, (b) one of many potential mechanisms or contexts capable of facilitating more advanced cog- nitive skills, or (c) merely the result of already having acquired these skills through some other means (Kasari, Chang, & Patteson, 2013; Lillard et al., 2013). Regardless, including sociodramatic and pretend play activities within a “playful curriculum” designed for young school-age children has been repeatedly demonstrated to be associated with improvements in sustained focus, recall (memory), and the ability to adjust to changes in routines and environments (e.g., Diamond, Barnett, Thomas, & Munro, 2007; Paley, 2005). 1 More Than Just Fun andfiGames: De nition, Development, andfiIntervention… 7 Typical Social Skill Development In a seminal experiment, Meltzoff and Moore (1977, 1989) demonstrated that infants have the capacity to imitate some facial expressions as early as the 12th day of life. Whether this initial imitation ability is innate (a type of reflex) or a skill the child has somehow already learned is not yet clear. Either way, the presence of the ability suggests that infants are able to recognize that they