tokens that the peer can exchange for a backup reward. For example, the interventionist may ask the peer to initiate Box 7.3 Initial Training Procedures • Overview of ASD and the focus child • Purpose of PMI • Clearly define what peers will do • Model peer behaviors • Role play and feedback How to Implement Peer-Mediated Interventions 122 with the focus child ten times during the session. Each time the peer initiates, the teacher places a sticker on a note card. Once the card has ten stickers, the peer can pick a prize from the class treasure box or can earn a privilege, such as being the class line leader or feeding the class pet. If the peer does make a mistake, the error correction procedure should be brief and should include a more intrusive prompt or model of what the peer should do. For instance, “Jorge, remember to make sure Charlie is looking at you before you ask him a question.” When the peer corrects the error, even with a prompt, he/she should receive specific praise from the interventionist. How Will PMI Be Evaluated? The first step in evaluating any intervention is to create a measurable goal for the target behavior. A measurable goal includes a clear description of the target behavior, the conditions or supports that should be in place for the behavior, and the criteria for determining when the objective has been met. For example, “Charlie will vocally respond within 5 s to 75% of peer initiations during a 20-min free play session for 5 consecutive days.” The behavior is “vocally respond within 5 s,” the condition is “during a 20-min free play session,” and the criterion is 75% of initiations for 5 consecutive days. This way, the interventionist can easily determine when Charlie has met his goal. Once PMI is introduced, the interventionist will use the same data collection procedures used in baseline to monitor the child’s response to PMI. It may not be feasible, or necessary, to collect data on the child’s behavior for every PMI session. Instead, the interventionist may select 1–3 days per week to monitor the child’s progress toward the goal. To interpret the collected data, it is important to plot the data on a graph. This allows stakeholders to see changes in the focus child’s behavior (see Fig. 7.2). Graphs can lead to one of three data-driven decisions: (a) the focus child’s target skills are improving, so continue implementing PMI, (b) it is difficult to determine if target skills are improving, so continue PMI until a pattern emerges, or (c) the child’s target skills are not improving, so modify the PMI. If target skills are not improving, the interventionist should check to see if peers are implementing PMI Fig. 7.1 Sample visual supports 7 Want tofiPlay? Peer-Mediated Intervention forfiYoung Children withfiAutism… 123 accurately. If needed, the peers should be given a booster training session. If the peers are implementing PMI accurately, then the interventionist may need to adjust the timing