than reinforcer saliency. Child Choice and Shared Control Demand characteristics of a setting can decrease motivation quite quickly. When the child feels like a litany of demands or requests are made, the treatment setting can become unpleasant. When this hap- pens, escape-motivated behavior is increased, and the child may not necessarily actually leave the scene, but may engage in interfering behaviors. Research has shown that if the child can make some choices and exert some control over what is going on, motivation to participate in learning increases (Koegel et al., 1989). Being a participator and invested partner, and not merely a recipient of treatment, seems to increase motivation. Guidance for providing child choice opportunities are pro- vided in Box 4.2. Three Basic Components of NaTS 58 Enhancing Generalization Previously, the importance of generalization and maintenance was discussed, and it was emphasized that it is imperative that generalization of treatment gains occur. All too often, generalization is not thought about until after acquisition of the behavior. Then the arduous task of attempting to promote generalization is begun. Sequential modification is a procedure in which generalization is programmed in every condi- tion (e.g., across persons, settings, stimuli) where generalization has not occurred (Stokes & Baer, 1977). This can often be a tedious process, especially in situations where generalization must occur across many stimuli. For example, if you are teach- ing a child to play a card game, you might have to teach him how to play multiple card games with different people in different settings. Stokes and Baer (1977) Box 4.2 How to Include Child Choice How to include child choice 1. Put out a few different items for activities/tasks for the child such as a puzzle, a car wash toy, and the “Don’t Break the Ice” game. Instruct the child to “pick one.” If the child doesn’t respond, repeat, but this time, push one of the items out in front a bit closer to the child (as a prompt) and then say: “pick one.” The child will usually pick the toy pushed out in front. Proceed with number 3 below. 2. Vary the toy you have placed out front, and as soon as possible, fade this prompt out by backing up all items so that when you instruct the child to “pick one,” all three play items are in a row. 3. If the child complains indicating that he/she wants the other item, redo the choice assessment, place his hand on the item he “complained for,” and remove the other items. 4. If the child is choosing between an acquisition task stimulus and two main- tenance task items, the child has chosen the stimuli that he wants to do first. Present this activity regardless of whether it is an acquisition or main- tenance task. However, you will need to present acquisition task eventu- ally, regardless of whether it has been chosen. 5. Remember that child choice is one of several motivation techniques that you will be using (including interspersal of maintenance