Single choice (approach vs. avoidance) (Pace, Ivancic, Edwards, Iwata, & Page, 1985) 1. Gather five to ten toys the child is reported to enjoy 2. Present each toy, one at a time, and allow up to 30 s of play 3. Record a “+” if the child played with the toy and “- “if s/he did not play with the toy 4. Repeat this _# of times Paired choice (forced choice) (Fisher, Piazza, Bowman, Hagopian, Owens, & Slevin 1992) 1. Gather ten toys the child is reported to enjoy 2. Present two at a time 3. Record which toy the child selects 4. Present each toy paired with each other so you have every combination 5. The most preferred toys are the ones which the child choses the most often out of a set of predetermined trials Multiple-stimulus without replacement (rank order) (DeLeon & Iwata, 1996) 1. Gather ten toys the child is reported to enjoy 2. Present each toy, one at a time, so the child may interact for 30s with each toy 3. Place all ten toys in front of the child and record which one the child selects 4. Allow the child to play for 30 s with the first toy (this is said to be the first choice). Remove this item from the group and allow the child to pick from the remaining nine toys 5. The child then may choice the next toy (second choice) and play for 30 s, and then this toy is removed from the group and the remaining eight toys are available for choice 6. This is repeated until the first five rank ordered toys are selected 3 All Children Can Play: Prompting andfiModeling Procedures tofiTeach Play… 41 availability of other choices seemed to make a big difference for children’s prefer- ence. That is, children were motivated for any preferred toy when it was the only choice available, but they usually chose their favorite when a couple of toys were offered simultaneously. This isn’t always a terrible problem to have when teaching children to play appropriately. In fact, having a variety of reinforcing toys can help combat satiation and keep the play fresh and exciting! The key finding of Raone et al. though suggests implications for organizing the teaching context. In other words, when teaching a child how to roll a favorite toy truck, for example, he may become distracted and interact with other toys he likes in the play area, and this can reduce instructional opportunities. This might occur at times when the therapist has the toy truck and is modeling how to use it, or when other types of prompts are used to interrupt stereotyped behavior or promote playing with a toy correctly. In these situations, it may be advisable to limit the number of toys in the play setting to maintain motivation for the toy targeted in the play intervention. Other children may not indicate strong preferences during observation or formal assessment. The children might readily interact with