as the peers? Does the child require assistance in this activity? What are the peers doing? Potential target behaviors include: What is the focus child doing? Free play centers Is the child doing the same thing as the peers? Does the child require assistance in this activity? What are the peers doing? Potential target behaviors include: What is the focus child doing? 7 Want tofiPlay? Peer-Mediated Intervention forfiYoung Children withfiAutism… 119 PMI is being used to help the focus child request preferred toys from peers, then it would make sense to hold the PMI sessions at a time when the child has not had recent access to their favorite toys so that they will be more motivated to ask for the toys. Similarly, if the target behavior is imitating peers’ gross motor play behaviors on the playground, then it makes sense to pick a time when the child has not had recent access to gross motor activities. Once the setting and time for implementing PMI have been determined, the interventionist should prepare the environment to promote successful peer interac- tions. For young children, selecting predictable routines within which to implement PMI may help to facilitate social interaction with peers (Prizant et al., 2000). The physical environment should be structured to allow children to access materials and be in close proximity to one another but with sufficient space to move, interact, and play appropriately. Including the focus child’s preferred toys or activities will also help increase motivation to stay, play, and interact in the designated area. How Will Peers Be Selected? Selecting peers is one of the most important parts of PMI. Interventionists should consider peers who have good, consistent school/ daycare attendance, strong social skills, age-appropriate language skills, who usu- ally follows directions, and who may have a history or interest in interacting or have positive previous interactions with the focus child (Bass & Mulick, 2007; Battaglia & Radley, 2014; Chan et al., 2009; Chang & Locke, 2016; Kamps et al., 2014; Katz & Girolametto, 2013; Mason et al., 2014; Watkins et al., 2015). Peers can be the same age as the focus child or older than the focus child (Zhang & Wheeler, 2011). However, to provide multiple opportunities for interaction between the focus child and the peers, it makes sense to select peers who are in the same class as the focus child. Research studies have found that finding shared topics of interest may help create more opportunities for positive social interactions between the child with ASD and his/her peers (Koegel et al., 2012, 2013). If the interven- tionist is consulting or providing related services in a different classroom or center, they should ask the teacher for nomination of peers. The teacher will be familiar with the peers’ attendance patterns, social skills, communication skills, and com- pliance with directions. The interventionist should also obtain parent permission in advance, particularly if the peer will miss instructional time in the classroom to participate in PMI Box 7.2. Table 7.2 Sample PMI