gains. Many aspects of play programs are also geared toward promoting long-term and far-reaching developmental consequences for children in that many play behaviors can lead to further play or social tasks requiring more complex behaviors (Bijou, 1977). Toward this end, play activities can promote skills for learning from others and developing friendships across the life span (Lifter, Foster-Sanda, Arzamarski, Briesch, & McClure, 2011; Rosales-Ruiz & Baer, 1997). Types of Play with Toys Exploratory and Functional Play with Toys In infancy, children begin to learn that their actions result in corresponding effects on the environment and act to reproduce these effects (Ginsburg & Opper, 1988). Bijou and Baer (1965) described this as “exploratory behavior” and suggest that stimuli in the child’s environment have many inherent properties that are natural or “ecological” reinforcers (e.g., textures, sounds, smells, colors, etc.). Functional play is an extension of exploratory play and involves manipulating objects in the manner in which they are intended (Isenberg & Jalongo, 2005). For example, attempting to place puzzle pieces in an inset box or assembly of Lego blocks would be examples of functional play. Children with ASD, however, generally do not display appropriate exploratory or functional toy play. Instead, they tend to manipulate a toy in a stereotypical way (Kang et al., 2013). This type of behavior is not considered play, even though at times the child may be using toys in a manner that is explorative, or considered partly functional. For example, gazing at the repetitive spinning of wheels on a toy car rather than rolling the car on the floor is considered stereotypy, despite the fact that the wheels were designed to spin. Also, many children with ASD engage in low levels of play with toys and show preference for non-toy items (e.g., sticks, pencils, plastic game pieces) or for engag- ing in stereotyped behavior with their body (e.g., finger flapping, body rocking). In these situations, even attending to and engaging in exploratory behavior with toys must be encouraged with prompting and reinforcement. For those with ASD, learn- ing appropriate play with toys can be associated with reductions in repetitive behav- ior and stereotyped interactions with play-related items (Koegel, Firestone, Kramme, & Dunlap, 1974; Nuzzolo-Gomez, Leonard, Rivera, & Greer, 2002; Stahmer & Schreibman, 1992). Older children with ASD who engage in stereotypy, in lieu of age appropriate functional play, should then be taught to play with toys of their preference. Types of Play with Toys 36 Imaginative and Pretend Play with Toys Pretend play involves the use of the imagination during play. Generally, the toy is used appropriately, but an element is missing. For example, children place empty spoons in their mouths in imitation of eating, or give dolls and animals a “drink” with empty cups. Children also begin to respond to the pretend actions of others through imitation. For example, if a peer pretends to sleep, the child may close her eyes and lay her head down. A more advanced aspect of pretend play is constructive play, in