continue to be spoken when coming into contact with the environmental stimu- lus (toy, person, setting) and not relying on the therapist or the script for prompts. Script Fading As with any intervention support provided to children with autism , the goal is to remove the instructional components without the newly acquired target behavior returning to levels before intervention. To accomplish this goal, it is often necessary to gradually remove elements of the intervention package until the child is performing the target skill without the additional support. This process is referred to as fading and steps for script fading are presented in Table 6.6. Table 6.5 Example scripts Type and purpose of script Example script Greeting script Hi, I’m home! Good morning, Ms. Jones What’s up, Dude? Initiation script samples Let’s play with cars! Watch me play! What’s your favorite video game? Who’s your teacher? I like chips for snack. Social commenting I like your tower. That was a good kick! You made a basket! Throughout-the-day scripted phrases sample I went to Disneyland on Saturday. I went on the Storybook ride at Disneyland. I ate a frozen banana at Disneyland. I had a great weekend. I got a Disneyland T-shirt. Conversational script Peer’s phrase: Do you like cars? Child’s phrase: Yes. Do you like trucks? Peer: Yes. What color cars and trucks do you like? Child: I like blue cars. Do you like garbage trucks? Peer: I like dump trucks. Do you like to dump sand? Child: I like playing with sand. Do you like playing with dirt? Peer: No, that’s messy. Let’s play with these cars. 6 Visualizing Success: Visual Schedules andfiScript Strategies forfiTeaching Play… 103 Note that if script fading is not going well, you may fade out partial words, espe- cially if you are using a short phrase with an early reader. For example, if you are fading out “Watch me,” you may want to fade out “Watch m,” then “Wat m,” then “Wa m,” and so on. You can individualize the fading. However, in our experience, fading backward, one word at a time works well. Also, we have learned that many children do not need much fading at all and you can jump ahead in the fading protocol. For longer scripts, you do the same fading procedure, but for each line of the script. So, for a conversational script, the last line of the child’s in the conversation would be faded back word by word. Then, you resume fading with the second to the last line of the child’s starting with the last word in this line. However, when using longer scripts, you are working with more verbal, and stronger readers to the chil- dren are likely to be faded off their scripts rapidly. Sometimes they can be faded off their scripts line by line as opposed to word by word. You may try this first to see if this is possible. Putting scripts on common technology has only recently begun to be studied. Grosberg and