and yell “No!” That’s a cow! No! That’s a pig! No! I want the frog, please!” Soon, the crying and yelling subsided, and Jake could make up long stories about the animals and eventually talk about other subjects. Jake flourished in his ABA treatment and was fully mainstreamed into a regular education classroom by age 7 years. To all involved, he would be considered a “success story” because he scored 110 on his WISC IQ test and was placed in a regular education classroom. However, Jake was not taught to play with other children and was not presented with social skills as part of his curriculum. As Jake aged, he and his siblings had less in common. He continued to be preoc- cupied with animals but his siblings and peers developed new more age-appropriate interests as they matured. Jake’s preoccupation with dinosaurs persisted and took on a more sophisticated outlet, drawing them repetitively. He is a good artist. His par- ents supported his artwork, but this was something that he did solitarily. Jake 9 Conclusion: Play andfiSocial Skills asfiBehavioral Cusps 157 becomes even more distant to his peers as he matriculated into middle and high school. During high school, it became evident that Jake, while doing adequate in his academic coursework, had few friends and no real occupation/vocation interests or skills. He had not joined any clubs, sports teams, community groups, and while he had speech skills, he did not know how to interact socially. Jake’s art continued into sculpture and his parents hoped that maybe Jake’s sculpting could be become a vocation. However, his sculpture turned out to be only of dinosaurs and his “sculp- tures” were in pipe cleaners. While dinosaurs are popular, Jake did not have any 3-D computer skills or other skills beyond this, and his parents were not sure what or where he would do/go after high school. The high school did have a social skills group, but progress was slow and arduous. The Case of Richard The first author employed Richard when he was around 23 years old after he graduated from college from a local prestigious university. Richard is very bright and did some data coding for us. That went well, and we attempted to keep him employed so offered him some office work. This required some social skills, which he had never received training in. A theoretically simple answer of the office phone was quite difficult for Richard. He did not learn to greet the person on the line. We attached a script to the phone, which he then read. However, when he needed to get the requested person and inform him/her that there was a call, he froze. When que- ried “what are you supposed to say?” he knew he was just to tell them they had a call. However, when asked “why are you not saying that,” he would tell us he cannot tell them, get their attention, doesn’t know what to say, and so on. The social aspects of