setting for acquisition of social skills, there is none better. There are even additional benefits to teaching play to children with ASD. Play promotes better rela- tionships within families and communities (Bijou, 1977; Gewirtz & Peláez- Nogueras, 1992; Rosales-Ruiz & Baer, 1997). The children with ASD can learn to play with their brothers and sisters and neighborhood members (see peer-mediated chapter). It has been noted that within families, older siblings who are more skilled 34 at fantasy play often have a positive effect on sociodramatic play of young children. For example, children’s play becomes more advanced with older siblings than dur- ing play with mothers (Farver & Wimbarti, 1995). This may suggest that it is impor- tant to include siblings in play interventions for children with ASD as well. Not only does play allow for important social interaction with siblings and peers, but it also provides opportunities to practice and acquire important activities neces- sary for cultural participation later in life (Goncu, 1999; Jordan, 2003). Certain cultures value different forms of play more than other cultures. For example, the Japanese culture values pretend play more than other cultures, and therefore the pretend play of Japanese children on both continents is much more complex than that of American children (Tamis-LeMonda, Bornstein, Cyphers, Toda, & Ogino, 1992). It is important to consider these cultural differences when designing play interventions for children with ASD as culture and community are important social validity indicators. A Behavioral Approach to Play The first step in a behavioral approach to play consists of viewing the individual parts of play as a collection of separate skills and then identifying the component skills necessary for increasing play. The second step is analyzing the sequences of these play skills, such that prerequisites, antecedents, reinforcers, and ultimately behavior chains are identified. Ultimately, the behavioral approach focuses on establishing, analyzing, and continually refining the optimal teaching strategies for promoting play skills. Bijou (1975) described three main antecedents in children’s development that relates to play: (1) the anatomy and physiology of the child’s body, (2) relationship of the body to physical objects in the environment, and (3) relations with people in the social environment. Thus, play can be initially defined as a child interacting with toys or objects in an explorative, functional, and appropriate manner. Next, children begin to use their imagination in play by using toys, other objects, and eventually other people in creative ways. Finally, and importantly, many play activities are done socially with a partner or in a group. Creating Play Programs for Children with ASD Some general goals of a play program for children with ASD include increasing functional toy play and decreasing stereotyped object manipulation. It is also impor- tant to increase social forms of play and decrease isolate or solitary play, especially when social opportunities are available (Warreyn et al., 2014; Wolfberg & Schuler, 1993). Immediate outcomes may include positive social interactions, language 3 All Children Can Play: Prompting andfiModeling Procedures tofiTeach Play… 35 gains, and cognitive