offer some guidance. The professional should be encouraging, use behavior-specific praise when the parent implements a step correctly, and correct errors in a construc- tive and supportive manner. Helping parents to reflect on their own implementation may facilitate parent learning. For example, the professional may ask “What do you think went well this time? What is something that you thought could be better?” Setting a goal for mastery criterion for parent implementation helps to add structure to the training and allows the parent and professional to track parent progress. For example, the professional may say “Once you have implemented each of the four steps of the intervention correctly and you feel comfortable with the procedures, then you should be ready to implement the intervention on your own at home.” 8 The Power offlParents: Parent-Implemented Interventions forflYoung Children… 147 Coaching Parents The professional and the family should develop a coaching schedule once the parent has met mastery criteria for implementing the intervention (Fig. 8.6). The purpose of coaching sessions is to observe the implementation of the intervention and the child’s progress. Coaching sessions also enable the professional to continue to sup- port the parent’s learning through additional performance feedback, joint reflection, and action planning. Coaching sessions should be frequent enough that the parent can continue to refine their use of the intervention. In some cases, coaching sessions may be quite frequent at the beginning, and, as the parent’s implementation improves, can gradually be spaced further apart. When travel to the family’s home is a barrier to holding coaching sessions, online technology can be a powerful tool. Parents can either video record themselves implementing the intervention and share the video with the professional. Alternatively, video conferencing software can be used to allow the professional to observe the intervention “live.” As in the practice and performance feedback phase, the coach should help the parent to reflect on his/ her own implementation, should provide behavior-specific praise, and should offer support and additional examples and resources to help correct errors the parent may have made during the observation. In addition to providing verbal performance feedback, professionals may want to provide parents with a written evaluation form or a self-report form so that the parent can refer back to the feedback at a later time, perhaps immediately before the next opportunity to implement the intervention. STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 STEP4 Selecting Target Outcomes “Done!” Identifying Routines “Done!” Training Parents “Done!” Coaching Parents “ Continue to Support the Parent !” • Observe the parent’s implementation • Monitor the child’s progress • Provide additional performance feedback • Joint reflection • Action planning • Should be frequent enough • Types: in-site coaching, sharing recorded videos, using video conferencing software Fig. 8.6 Coaching parents How to Use Parent-Implemented Intervention 148 Conclusion In summary, parent-implemented intervention is an effective practice for improving child communication, social, play, and challenging behavior outcomes. Parent- implemented intervention also has been shown to decrease parental stress and improve the quality and quantity of parent-child