develop, implement, and fade visual supports during play in their homes. Results showed that the mothers implemented the intervention accu- rately and that their child’s verbal initiations improved and maintained after the visual supports were withdrawn. How to Use Parent-Implemented Intervention (Fig. 8.1) Evaluating the Fit of Parent-Implemented Intervention with Individual Families Fig. 8.1 Planning for parent-implemented intervention How to Use Parent-Implemented Intervention 142 Parent-implemented intervention begins with joint planning between the professional and the family. The professional should meet with the child’s family to describe what parent-implemented intervention is and how it could be implemented within daily family routines. It is up to the family to decide if this approach will fit with their values, culture, and home life. While parent-implemented intervention has strong research support, it is not necessarily a good fit for every family (Barton & Lissman, 2015). Some parents may be eager to learn as much as they can about serving as an interventionist for their child. Other parents may see their role as a caretaker, and not as an interventionist, or may be under such stress that learning how to implement an intervention may feel overwhelming (Kaiser et al., 2000). Working with families to determine how a parent-implemented intervention could be made more feasible, acceptable, and less stressful for the family is essential. Selecting Child Outcomes If a family is open to parent-implemented intervention, then the professional can begin conversations with the family to identify child outcomes which are important to the family and which may align well with interventions implemented by the par- ent. When selecting an outcome or outcomes for intervention, the professional and the family should consider behaviors that the child would have multiple opportuni- ties to engage in within the context of their daily routines. Potential child outcomes may relate to increased communication skills, increased social interaction skills, improved play skills, or decreases in challenging behaviors. Professionals should pay careful attention to the family’s desires and concerns about their child’s devel- opment. Then, the professional can help take the family’s desire for their child and convert it into a measurable objective so that the child’s progress toward that goal can be assessed. For example, a parent may be interested in increasing their child’s ability to ask for things they want. The professional could translate that goal into a measurable objective such as “During mealtimes when a preferred food item is in sight but out of reach, Amy will say, ‘I want_’ followed by the desired food item for 12 consecutive meals” (Fig. 8.2). Identifying Routines One of the greatest strengths of parent-implemented intervention is the potential to embed intervention within daily family routines. Asking families to create a time in their day to work one-on-one with their child in a structured setting may not be feasible for families, can increase parental stress, and can take time away from other tasks, activities, and priorities the family has (Koegel, 2000). By embedding instruction into daily routines, the parent is able to implement the