which children use toys and objects to create something new. For example, using Play-Doh to make animals and pretend food or crayons to draw a picture (as opposed to coloring in a coloring book) is an example of constructive play (Wilson, 2015). When using objects to represent other objects, this is called symbolic play (Walker-Andrews & Kahana-Kalman, 1999). During symbolic play, children may substitute a block for a car and push the block across the floor treating it as if it were actually a rolling car. In sociodramatic play, children take on imaginary personalities and play roles in an imaginary situation (Trawick-Smith & Dziurgot, 2011). This type of play is more elaborate than symbolic play with toys, because it might involve some aspects of social perspective-taking. The types of roles and characters typically revolve around familiar adults or involve characters from screen media such as super heroes (Rogoff, 2003). Children with ASD often show deficits in symbolic and sociodramatic play (Lee et al., 2016; Wolfberg, DeWitt, Young, & Nguyen, 2015). For example, children with ASD’s pretend play often involves repetitive actions and fewer novel actions (Desha, Ziviani, & Rodger, 2003; Jarrold, Boucher, & Smith, 1993). Often, direct intervention and prompting is necessary to evoke pretend play behavior (Charman & Baron-Cohen, 1997). Similarly, the complexity doesn’t venture far from the func- tional use of objects and toys (Thiemann-Bourque, Brady, & Fleming, 2012). With respect to sociodramatic play, emerging research using drama groups suggests that perspective-taking and social imagination are also impaired in these contexts (Neufeld, 2013). Categories of Pretend Play Solitary and Pretend Play When children are playing alone with blocks, puzzles, or rolling cars, for example, they are said to be engaging in solitary play. This is a developmental phase for all children, but children with ASD tend to prefer to play by themselves long after the age of mere exploratory play is over. Much older, school-aged children with ASD will demonstrate a preference to be by themselves and not interact with others. While typically developing toddlers will develop to parallel play and maintain close 3 All Children Can Play: Prompting andfiModeling Procedures tofiTeach Play… 37 proximity to other children, children with ASD will generally leave the immediate area or turn their back on others. Thus, even in the early stages of play, children with ASD stand out from typically developing children in their play behaviors. Not only do they lack the exploratory and functional toy play, as described above, but the deficits in the social aspects of play are early indicators of the children’s special needs. Associative and Cooperative Play In associative play, children share a common space and toys, but do not necessarily have much interaction with one another. Instead, children are more engaged in their own tasks, but do exchange materials and periodically make comments on one another’s activities. For example, two children may be individually working on building with blocks or separate coloring pages, and both will draw the blocks or crayons from a common pile.