engaged in activities that they had chosen, compared with toys selected by adults. Baker (2000) found positive increases in joint attention during sibling training when the child with ASD’s ritual- istic interests (i.e., preferred toys) were included in the play training. Thus, family and peer socialization can potentially increase if activities are available that the child with ASD find interesting or motivating. Preference Assessments There are many ways to find out which toys and activities are most preferred by the children. Often, simple observation and asking people who spend a lot of time with the children will yield fruitful information. Asking verbal children can also be help- ful to an extent; however, some research suggests children may not always accu- rately report their preferences or tend to choose other activities when the time comes to play with their choices (Northup, George, Jones, Broussard, & Vollmer, 1996). For other children and particularly those who are nonverbal, a systematic approach to assessing their preferences may be most effective. Fortunately, researchers have explored a variety of observational measures to assess the preferences of children with ASD. Assessing preference is a common method for identifying items and activities that may be enjoyable for children with 3 All Children Can Play: Prompting andfiModeling Procedures tofiTeach Play… 39 ASD who are not able to clearly communicate this information to others (Ivancic et al., 1997). Knowing preference for items can help teachers and clinicians pro- mote the effectiveness of positive behavior interventions and increase happiness in their students and clients. For example, using preferred items as contingent rein- forcement following positive behavior is one of the most effective means of increas- ing positive behavior, as well as decreasing problem behavior within positive behavior interventions (Pace, Ivancic, Edwards, Iwata, & Page, 1985). Accordingly, preferred items in general are more likely to function as reinforcers compared to non-preferred items (Green & Striefel, 1988). During preference assessments, vari- ous items and activities are physically presented in front of a child in an array. When the child approaches (e.g., moves toward or touches item) or interacts with some items more often than others, this suggests likely enjoyment or preference for the approached items (DeLeon & Iwata, 1996) and indicates the items’ potential utility as reinforcers during play interventions. Types of Preference Assessments There are several approaches to assessing preference, and these are outlined below. Often, preference assessment procedures are repeated a few times within a session to gauge for consistency in preference, as well as monitor for real-time changes in preference and motivation across a session. The simple observational approach is the free-operant method of assessing preference. This procedure first involves arranging all of the toys that a child is reported to enjoy on the floor or a table. Next, the child is instructed to play with the toys, and the teacher or therapist uses a stop- watch to record how much time the child spends engaging with each available toy. Items with greater durations of engagement suggest possible preferred items.