be temporary. Making sustainable changes in play and social skills has long-lasting positive effects upon the child’s prognosis by means of creating behavioral cusps. Treatment with Play and Social Skills Amy was almost 4 when she started our early social skills groups. She scored in the severe range of ASD using the Childhood Autism Checklist, Second Edition (CARS2; Schopler, Van Bourgondien, Wellman, & Love, 2010). She had limited echoic speech but would communicate by one or two word phrases (“chips, No, potty!”). She seldom displayed any eye contact, spontaneously or upon request and engaged in problem behavior a large percentage of the day which prevented her from attending preschool. Many common sounds in the environment occasioned her to scream loudly and result in her running away. She was noncompliant with her parents for most requests and her parents described their life as “tiptoeing around Amy.” Because Amy had a multitude of behavior problems, we needed to start there, although we had a social skills/play program going on at the same time so that Amy may get some joy out of her life instead of worrying about what noises she would come in contact with. Amy’s mother requested that her two concerns were getting Amy to use the bathroom outside of the home bathroom and to decrease tantrums. As behavior problems usually go, they are quite easy to treat. Amy, void of her concerns of noises, using public bathrooms, and eager to learn, became a “different child.” But it was in the milieu of play and social skills, where her mother had fewer expectations and concerns, that Amy began to shine. As Amy learned to play with toys, her speech and language developed in sophistication. She found something interesting to talk about others that what she didn’t want to do. She then learned that her peers in her social skills group were important because many of her 9 Conclusion: Play andfiSocial Skills asfiBehavioral Cusps 161 toys required others to be involved. She befriended another girl in the group but seemed happier with the more active boys. During athletic activities out on the yard, Amy excelled. She enjoyed running and learned that rules of a game made it more interesting, not confining. Soon, she was using her pretend skills to make up games. While we do not have many years to report on Amy, we can state that Amy, after 6 months of her ABA program, inclusive with play and social skills, was enrolled into a local preschool and excelled. She learned her pre-K work with much gusto, and today she continues in second grade, partially mainstreamed due to reluctance of her school district and their budgetary problems. However, every morning, Amy greets her teacher with eye contact (which she now engages in most of the time), a smile, and says “Good morning, Mrs. Valdez” before Amy goes independently off to her desk to get her schedule for the day. It is too soon to determine if Amy is a success story.