interventions using these devices because research demonstrates that these individuals are especially adept at mechanical tasks like working elec- tronic devices (e.g., Goldstein, Beers, Siegel, & Minshew, 2001; Kanner, 1943). While many report that children with autism like portable handheld devices and think that they are “cool” (Harrell, 2010; Kagohara et al., 2011; Kellems, 2010), research has not systematically examined children with autism’s perceptions of these devices or whether they prefer them over the traditionally used television. Assuming that children with autism do view handheld devices favorably, there is no research supporting the view that this improves their response to treatments deliv- ered on these devices. Increased social validity of intervention Social validity of intervention refers to the extent to which the intervention (e.g., goals, procedures, and outcomes) is rele- vant to and acceptable in the children’s environments (Kazdin, 2005). Many have speculated that implementing interventions on common and popular portable hand- held technology will increase the social validity and decrease the stigma of inter- vention procedures (Ayres, Mechling, & Sansosti, 2013; Goldsmith & LeBlanc, 2004; Shane et al., 2012). More specifically, it is believed that these devices will allow interventions to be acceptable to those implementing the intervention and to the targeted children’s peers. 5 Lights, Camera, Action! Teaching Play and Social Skills to Children with Autism… 81 Preliminary evidence indicates that those implementing interventions do find handheld portable devices acceptable. Teachers who have used these devices to implement video modeling interventions in the classroom have said that the porta- ble video modeling interventions are appropriate and that they would implement them again in the future (Cihak et al., 2010). However, there is a need for more research in this area. While it is generally accepted that neurotypical children and adolescents view portable handheld devices favorably, there is mixed research on how this affects their perceptions of the interventions or the participating children. However, related research indicates that individuals with autism who use socially desirable items when interacting may be more appealing to peers. For example, one study found that adolescents with autism received more social initiations from peers when they had items their peers preferred (e.g., a video game) during school recesses (Gaylord- Ross, Haring, Breen, & Pitts-Conway, 1984). More research is needed to extend this finding to the use of portable handheld devices. How to Do Video Modeling Video Modeling Readiness In order for video modeling to be effective, the child watching the video model must already be familiar with watching screens of any sort. The child must have a history of liking and/or viewing television, videos, computer monitors, iPads, or even mov- ies or games on smartphones. The child should have attention skills that include eye contact toward the screen for several minutes at a time as well as the ability to stay seated for the duration of a very short video clip. In video modeling, we will be presenting a model engaging in a behavior for the child to observe and subsequently imitate. So, if