6. Have the child return play item. 7. After completion of the first play activity, prompt a page turn. 8. On the next page either a picture of a reinforcer appears for the child to be awarded, or the next play item. 9. Continue until you are done. Tips for easy use of visual activity schedules 1. Make sure you have done a preference assessment for preferred play items. 2. Have a reinforcer appear in the schedule. 3. Have the reinforcer provided after every one or two play activities. 4. Fade out all of your prompts as soon as possible—remember that a main purpose of the activity schedule is for the child to engage in the play behavior independently. 5. Fade yourself back and out of the immediate setting as soon as it is possible. 6. Initially keep the play activities of short duration. 6 Visualizing Success: Visual Schedules andfiScript Strategies forfiTeaching Play… 99 After hearing this, I became much more aware of how difficult language training is for a child with ASD. Engaging in conversational phrases is the core of social verbal behavior. Asking questions, giving answers, making comments, and the to-and-fro, give-and-take nature of talking with someone are the basic of social dialogue. We can prompt, but our prompts tend to get in the way and confuse the child with ASD as to whom the verbalization is for. Is the verbal prompt a statement for the child, or is it a modeled phrase that needs to be imitated? For those children with ASD who can read, a script can become a prompt, an indispensable technique to use (e.g., Krantz & McClannahan, 1993). Scripts can be delivered via a number of different media such as audio recordings, written on paper, or accessed via technology (e.g., Charlop- Christy & Kelso, 2003; Ramdoss et al., 2012; Raulston et al., 2013). Scripts are usually written out, and therefore they are visual strategies, and we have already discussed that visual strategies tend to work better. Scripts can be faded out so they typically do not create prompt dependency (Wong et al., 2013). In general, scripts are defined as an intervention in which pre-written statements serve as a cue to enhance social communication. Scripts are typically written on paper (white boards, etc.) and are not verbally modeled by adults or peers. Thus, they do require basic literacy skills. With scripts, the children basically “read and then say” what is on the script, and what is on the script is a social verbal statement. Scripts enable children with ASD to engage in a number of verbal social behaviors such as conversations, initiations, greetings, asking questions, social commenting, and play-related statements, to name a few (Brown, Krantz, McClannahan, & Poulson, 2008; Goldstein & Cisar, 1992; McClannahan & Krantz, 2005). As the children start to use the scripted phrases with others, the script is typically faded out, word by word, from the last word or statement learned to the first. For instance, “Let’s play with the Legos”