are used with nearly all children as they learn organized sports and may be particularly necessary with children with ASD. Middle School-Aged and High School-Aged Children For these children, independent play is typically referred to as leisure skills, although cooperative play, group play, and so on are still considered play. Adults play, but we tend to call it a hobby or leisure activity. So for the older children, we will likely teach them how to play video games, drawing and painting, looking or reading books and magazines, and other activities that can be done independently. We would like to avoid, as much as possible, providing lengthy amounts of time of watching TV/movies, sitting and eating snacks, or being idle. These are not productive. Many older children with ASD do not have any leisure skills because they have not been Game Target behaviors (steps) Basketball Dribble ball Aim ball at basket Retrieve missed balls Pass ball to another player Catch ball tossed by another player High fives for baskets “Rules of thumb”: Advice for teaching group play • Each child receives individual attention during play. That is, one therapist is assigned to assist the child and reinforce specific skills. Thus, one thera- pist is usually assigned to teach each separate set of behaviors. A therapist might be assigned to batting behaviors, where he/she would model, prompt, and reinforce the behaviors listed above. Therapists standing on the first, second, and third base would assist the child through base running behav- iors, while another therapist, standing at the home plate, would assist the child in the scoring behaviors. • At first, outside reinforcers may be necessary for the children to help them go through and learn the steps of the games and to reinforce their patience while waiting their turn. • Make sure directions and instruction are as clear and understandable as possible. 3 All Children Can Play: Prompting andfiModeling Procedures tofiTeach Play… 49 taught any. In addition, many children do know that some of these leisure activities, once learned, may be quite enjoyable. So, like any other task or lesson, we need to teach them the leisure activity as a skill. Once learned, they then can choose what they want to do. Some leisure activities initially may be more difficult to learn than the leisure activities they already know how to do. For example, it is much more difficult to learn how to draw or trace their favorite superheroes than it is to watch a video of the superhero. So, we must be patient and view the teaching of an appropri- ate leisure skill such as drawing pictures or tracing pictures or even coloring super- heroes as something that the child might find less preferable than just kicking back and watching TV. However, once the child learns to draw (if drawing is for them), he/she might find it an entertaining hobby, and it may reveal a talent that no one knew about. It is also important to teach the children a variety