be for every two to three trials of the acquisition task, at the most, in which you should request a maintenance task and provide a reinforcer for it. This mix-up will make sure the child is very likely to get a reinforcer while learning new (acquisition) tasks by getting these maintenance tasks correct. 4. Always provide a reinforcer upon correct response of the acquisition task. That which is reinforced will increase. The maintenance tasks are put into the mix to insure that reinforcers will be earned for the acquisition task soon because motivation will be optimized. 5. You may use several maintenance tasks too, so that the task variation inter- sperses with maintenance tasks that are not always the same. This makes treatment even more interesting. 4 Keeping It Real: Naturalistic Teaching Strategies (NaTS) forfiPlay andfiSocial Skills… 57 Reinforcers Motivation relies heavily upon reinforcer selection, schedule, and manner of delivery. Reinforcers are specific to the child, and desirability often changes. Preference assessments need to be done frequently, at the minimum daily, and possibly within session. That is, what is initially reinforcing at the start of a treatment session may not be in the middle or at the later stages of the session. The literature is filled with studies on preference assessments for reinforcer selection (Cooper, Heron, & Heward, 2007; Parsons & Reid, 1990). It may initially seem contradictory to do preference assessments when using naturalistic teaching strate- gies because the emphasis is on the use of reinforcers that are related to the behav- ior, not unrelated reinforcers. For example, with NaTS, when teaching a child to comment about a play item, the child is provided with the play item as the rein- forcer. One might ask: “What if he has difficulty learning the commenting behavior and a food reinforcer is the more reinforcing item for the child?” This is often the case with children with ASD, and indeed it has been cautioned that during prefer- ence assessments not to use both food and toys together because food is usually chosen (Bojak & Carr, 1999). This situation could be a conundrum. However, there are several motivation- enhancing procedures at use, and they may not all be able to be employed at the same time. In this situation, it is advised to keep the integrity of the NaTS and pro- vide the play item upon completion of the commenting behavior. However, here would be a good time to mix it up a bit by inserting a maintenance task in with a highly preferred food item as the reinforcer. Also note that reinforcer variation is just as important as task variation. To keep motivation high, use a variety of highly salient reinforcers. In fact, research shows that variation in reinforcers, even if they are not the most preferred, do just as well as the most highly preferred reinforcers (Bowman, Piazza, Fisher, Hagopian, & Kogan, 1997). Satiation can occur with the most highly preferred reinforcers, so varying reinforcers is a more important con- cept