the precursor matching skills to play cards yet. Thus, a good VM tar- get behavior would be a matching game before teaching a matching card game. Guidelines for selecting a target behavior are offered in Box 5.1. For example, you may have a child who is 10 years old but is nonverbal and does not have many social or play skills. So, when thinking about what a neurotypical child of 10 years plays with, this might not be helpful because these children use a lot of language in their play or play games (e.g., board games, card games, athletic Box 5.1 Considerations When Selecting Target Behaviors Considerations when selecting target behaviors 1. What do neurotypical children the same age play? 2. How long would a neurotypical child stay with that activity? 3. What do children with a mental age similar to the child play? 4. How long do you think the child will focus on a video of the play? 5 Lights, Camera, Action! Teaching Play and Social Skills to Children with Autism… 83 games) with a lot of rules. A neurotypical child of 10 years could sustain a play activity and be involved for a long time, whereas your child may only be able to be involved for short bursts of play activities. Plus, your child may be more interested in more basic forms of play as opposed to sophisticated forms of play. That is, a matching card game where the child categorizes color cards for a few minutes may be more appropriate than a 20-min game of rummy. These are all important factors to be considered. Operationally Define Target Behavior After you have your target behavior chosen, you will need to operationally define it so you can do two things: (1) figure out how to come up with a script to put it on the video, and (2) tell that the child has learned through VM. Operationally defining a target behavior puts it into terms that are observable, measurable, and individually specific. You break it down into small pieces so you can easily model it. Not only that, but it is easy for others to replicate it. Finally, and importantly, you make every aspect of the behavior easily observed by the child for subsequent imitation. One of the important aspects of the operational definition is that it is individually specific. That means that the behavior is defined with the specific child in mind. The ramifications of this one sentence are actually quite large. What this means is that a video is made to order for each child, so that a particular video may or may not work with other children. For example, what is “independent play” for one child may not be independent play for another. For one child, independent play may be pushing the buttons of a cause-effect toy so that an operational definition might be “pushing down the buttons on the toy, in any manner.” For another child, independent play may be operationally defined as “pushing