used to improve the social and play skills of children with ASD in a sufficient number of studies. Table 2.1 lists those 16 evidence-based practices and identifies where they are covered in this book. National Autism Center’s National Standards Project The National Autism Center’s National Standards Project (NSP) solicited input from a select panel of nationally recognized clinicians, scholars, and scientists working in the field of ASD treatment to define criteria for classifying treatments as established , emerging , or unestablished . For the purpose of this text, the treatments classified as “established” by the NSP can be considered evidence-based practices. The NSP’s criteria for a treatment to be considered an established evidence-based practice are similar to those used by the NPDC in that both require replication of research findings in multiple studies by more than one research team and those stud- ies must be published in peer-reviewed scientific journals. However, for a treatment to be considered evidence-based by the NSP, there must be at least 2 group design or 4 single-subject design studies that include a minimum of 12 participants that all produce beneficial outcomes and no study that reports conflicting results. If a single study does suggest a treatment is ineffective or detrimental but other studies report beneficial outcomes (conflicting findings are found across studies), then there must be at least 3 group designs or 6 single-case designs with a minimum of 18 partici- pants suggesting beneficial outcomes. If there is more than one study that reports negative findings (no improvement as a result of a treatment), then the treatment cannot be classified as evidence-based using the NSP criteria. The NSP examined 775 peer-reviewed research studies and identified 11 specific intervention components and treatment packages as evidence-based (Table 2.2). Of these 11 practices that met the NPDC’s criteria, 9 have a sufficient body of research demonstrating potential to improve the social and play skills of children with ASD. The two omitted were Comprehensive Behavioral Treatment for Young Children and Self-Management. These were omitted because the former is a broad description of intervention packages designed to address many areas of functioning simultaneously and are not designed to focus on any single skill domain (e.g., social or play). The latter is more commonly used with higher-functioning children and 2 New Is Not Always Improved: Evidence-Based Practice infiPlay andfiSocial Skills… 27 adults, and there is limited research evaluating self-management interventions on social and play skills specifically. Table 2.2 displays the nine remaining evidence- based practices and identifies where they are covered in this text as either a compo- nent of an intervention package or as the main focus of a chapter. Autism Evidence-based Practice Review Group The Autism Evidence-Based Practice Review Group included a core group of researchers from the University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill as well as a large team of experts that served as article reviewers (Wong et al., 2013). The team reviewed over 1000 peer-reviewed studies focused on the education and treatment of children with ASD.