Center, 2015; National Research Council, 2001; Wong et al., 2014). Applied behavior analysis is based within behavioral psychology and utilizes operant condi- tioning and careful arrangement of the environment to teach new behaviors. This approach involves systematic instruction with clear instructions, prompting and prompt fading, error correction, and reinforcement. Usually applied behavior ana- lytic interventions are implemented by adult interventionists (Knapczyk, 1989). This reliance on adults can lead to issues in simulating authentic social interactions with young children and can create barriers for skill generalization to same-age peers (Radley, Dart, Furlow, & Ness, 2015). This is particularly an issue for children with ASD who have difficulties generalizing learned behaviors across people, con- texts, and materials (Laushey & Heflin, 2000; Watkins et al., 2015). If we want children to engage in particular social, communicative, or play behav- iors, we must intentionally teach them to use these skills across a variety of people, places, and materials (Kamps et al., 2014; Laushey & Heflin, 2000). In other words, placing children near neurotypical peers is not sufficient; we must also provide instruction to the children and their peers. Involving peers in teaching new behav- iors to children with ASD can promote generalization of new behaviors by “training loosely” in the child’s natural environment (Stokes & Baer, 1977), rather than in a highly structured one-on-one session with an adult. Research has shown that to promote child engagement in a behavior over time, we should teach that behavior in the context in which the child will use the behavior. In addition, involving peers in intervention may promote skill generalization through the use of “multiple exemplars” (Stokes & Baer, 1977). That is, children with ASD have multiple opportunities across repeated social interactions and across multiple peers to learn and practice new behaviors. In traditional adult-directed instruction, the adult teaches a new behavior to the child and then teaches that child to use the new behavior in a different setting or with different people. Teaching new skills directly with peers in the child’s natural environment may reduce the number of teaching phases needed by eliminating this transfer phase (Bass & Mulick, 2007). Given these potential advantages over adult-delivered intervention, research studies began to evaluate more intentional, systematic means of involving peers in social skill interventions (Katz & Girolametto, 2013). Research into instructional practices which involve neurotypical peers led to the development of the peer-mediated intervention (PMI) approach. The first study in which peers were enlisted to teach social skills to children with disabilities was conducted by Strain et al. (1977). In that study six young children with social communication delays and challenging behavior were divided into two groups of 7 Want tofiPlay? Peer-Mediated Intervention forfiYoung Children withfiAutism… 109 three. Each group was partnered with a typically developing peer who was taught to engage the children in social interactions by making statements such as “Come play!” or modeling how to play with toys such as trucks, balls, and blocks. Results showed that the children’s social initiations and responses improved