in” when teaching puzzle play. Once the instruction is given to the child, the instruction has ended. The second modality is visual-temporal, where treatment is provided in a transient mode and is perceived by seeing. An example of this may be modeling. When teaching the child to put in a puzzle piece, the instruc- tion may be given as a model or demonstration of “putting in the puzzle piece” for the child to imitate. With this modality, the child sees the demonstration, but the demonstration is fleeting. The third type of modality is visual-spatial where presen- tation of treatment is provided as a permanent product and is perceived by seeing (Charlop-Christy & Jones, 2006; Quill, 1997). With this modality, the treatment is seen, but it is permanent in the child’s environment. A good example of this is the Picture Exchange Communication System (PECS) where picture cards are used for communication. These cards are a permanent fixture in the environment. Other examples include the picture activity schedules and scripts that will be discussed in this chapter. Any permanent product teaching material would be included here. 96 Modalities of Presentation of Intervention While visual-temporal and visual-spatial modalities both put treatment into the visual realm for children with ASD, and video modeling has been shown to be effective for a wide number of play and social skills, it is still considered transient, although the advantage of video modeling is that the video itself is a permanent product and can be played over until learning has occurred. However, for visual spatial modalities, such as visual activity schedules and scripts, we have a perma- nent product from the start. Choosing a visual activity schedule over a video would depend, however, on a number of variables. Visual activity schedules are generally for children who do not reach the prerequisite skills for video modeling (see Video Modeling Chap. 5). Some are better suited for each intervention. Some basic rules of thumb for choosing visual strategies and a comparison of visual activities and video modeling are presented in Tables 6.1 and 6.2, respectively. Studies have directly compared static photo activity schedules to video modeling to mixed results (Mechling & Gustafson, 2008). So, at this point, we do not have con- clusive evidence that one works better than the other. We recommend that therefore the above considerations be taken into account when determining which treatment procedure to use. Below is a discussion of visual activity schedules and scripts with concomitant fading. The reader is reminded to check out the Video Modeling chapter as well for additional visual strategies. Likewise, the reader should keep in mind that treatment should be motivating, and since children with ASD have shown preferences for visual stimuli, there may be some initial motivation to engage in the process. Table 6.1 Presentation of treatment and examples of auditory-temporal, visual-temporal, and visual-spatial Auditory-temporal Visual- temporal Visual-spatial Presentation of treatment Transient, hearing Transient, seeing Permanent, seeing Examples Speech/verbal Video modeling PECS Visual activity schedules Scripts Table 6.2 Comparison