the pleasure of just such a perspective. I have been in the ASD field for a half century, and in that time I have been a witness to the enormous advances that have been made in the field of ASD treatment, many of which are so elegantly presented in the present book. Back when I first entered the field as an undergraduate student at UCLA, we were faced with trying to teach children with ASD, and since many had written off these children as “uneducable,” we knew we had our work cut out for us. How very excited and delighted we were when, via the application of learning theory, we were able to teach these children simple behaviors such as verbal and nonverbal imita- tion, object labels, social greetings, simple play skills, etc. Most often using food reinforcers and a highly regimented discrete trial intervention, we were gradually able to teach limited, albeit important, behavioral repertoires. This was ground- breaking stuff followed by accolades from others—along with the subsequent real- ization that this early work had some profound limitations in terms of overall generalization of treatment effects. Back then we knew so much less about not only the nature of ASD but also which behaviors to teach, how to teach them, and what to expect in terms of developmental/functional sequence and collateral effects. Then, as applied behavior analysis as a science was maturing and coming into its own, so was our ability to understand ASD as well as curricular issues and interven- tion effects. In turn, this has allowed us to affect more substantial and comprehen- sive treatment gains in these children. This progress has been dependent upon many years of systematic, well-designed, focused research conducted by many laborato- ries and clinics in the United States and abroad. The material presented here by Charlop, Lang, and Rispoli is informed by many, many years of research in the areas of teaching social and play skills to children with ASD. Since play and social skills are areas of renowned deficit for this popula- tion, they have been strong foci for research and these authors use well the results of this research to present the latest proven treatment strategies. This book provides we readers with just the right information to allow us to understand the ASD social viii and play deficits, appreciate the relevant research, and comprehend the latest inter- vention strategies and how to use these strategies to teach social and play skills, all this in one neat well-written and entertaining package. This is not a “how-to” book of cookbook recipes for designing play and social skill interventions. If that is what the reader is looking for, I suggest they look else- where. And good luck. As someone who has taught behavioral intervention strate- gies for 45 years, I can say that such cookbook strategies are unlikely to be effective since they rarely provide generalized, or generalizable, teaching skills. The key to acquiring generalized skills that allow one to work successfully with