the coach provided the parent with praise when they implemented a strategy correctly and cued the parent to attend to opportunities when they could use the strategies. Following these sessions, the coach met with the parent to provide additional performance feedback and to allow the parent the opportunity to engage in self-reflection of their use of the strategies and their child’s response to those strategies. Advances in technology have helped professionals provide live coaching in a more discrete fashion. Lequia et al. (2013) taught three parents to implement strate- gies to decrease their child’s challenging behavior. The parent training consisted of written and verbal instruction followed by opportunities for practice. The parents practiced the strategies with their child in a room at the research center. The researchers observed the parent and child through a one-way mirror and provided verbal prompts and performance feedback to the parents using wireless head- phones. The use of wireless technology allowed the researchers to unobtrusively coach the parents. Other studies have shown that wireless technology paired with videoconferencing technology (e.g., Machalicek et al., 2016; Simacek, Dimian, & McComas, 2017) is an effective means for professionals to feasibly provide parents with coaching, practice, and performance feedback without having to travel from home to home. Additional Considerations In addition to teaching parents how to implement the specific interventions, parent training may also involve helping the parent to create an environment that will enable successful and sustainable intervention implementation. Barton and Fettig (2013) reviewed the research literature and found parent training themes related to planning , motivation , and problem solving . Specifically, research has shown that when parents are involved in planning how the intervention can be incorporated into their family life, they are more likely to implement the intervention, and the inter- vention is more likely to be successful in improving their child’s target outcomes (Moes & Frea, 2000). Lucyshyn et al. (2007) taught the parents of a 5-year-old girl with ASD to implement interventions to reduce their daughter’s challenging behav- ior. Prior to teaching the parents the intervention procedures, the researchers met with the family to plan which four daily routines were important to the family and in which the child engaged in challenging behavior. Once the parents have been taught when and how to implement the intervention, steps must be taken to build the family’s motivation to use their newly learned strategies in between coaching ses- sions. This may include setting goals for the number of times the parents will imple- ment the intervention before the next coaching session. For example, Brown and Teaching and Supporting Parents to Implement Interventions 138 Woods (2015) asked the parents they were training to plan three activities during which they could implement their newly learned interventions without receiving coaching or performance feedback. Finally, parents may also need to be taught how to engage in problem solving when the intervention is not successful or when they make errors while implementing the intervention (Moes & Frea, 2002). Parent-Implemented Intervention Improves