treatment is deliv- ered. Treatment providers are also typically persons from the natural environment, such as parents or teachers, or can even be peers and siblings. Since play and social skills are behaviors that occur in the natural environment, it makes sense that these procedures have typically been used and that there is a substantial body of scientific literature addressing the use of NaTS for play and social skills acquisition. Naturalistic teaching procedures are an excellent choice to use with children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD). Naturalistic teaching strategies are tailor-made to teach play and social skills not only because of the less structured treatment environment but also because they promote generalization of treatment gains. NaTS incorporate facilitators of general- ization clearly outlined by Stokes and Baer (1977) and Stokes and Osnes (1986). NaTS tend to use direct reinforcers, common stimuli, behaviors that mediate gener- alization, procedures that train loosely, and looser stimulus control, while employ- ing thinner schedules of reinforcement (all to be discussed below). A specific description of naturalistic teaching strategies is provided below. Several treatment protocols ranging from more structured (natural language paradigm) to less struc- tured (multiple incidental teaching procedures) will be discussed. 54 Three Basic Components of NaTS There are three basic components to naturalistic teaching strategies: (1) motivation- enhancing techniques, (2) functional relationships, and (3) facilitators of general- ization. First, motivation-enhancing techniques include strategies that may focus on reinforcers such as the use of varied reinforcers and the continued and repeated use of preference assessments for both preferred stimuli and novel stimuli to determine items of current interest (DeLeon & Iwata, 1996; Egel, 1981). Also included is the incorporation of child choice, both in terms of reinforcers and type of task. As well, task interspersal techniques keep the child responding and motivation levels high, while boredom and escape behaviors are kept at low levels. Using treatment envi- ronments that are less structured and associated with play increases motivation. When motivating techniques are included during treatment, positive attitudes have been reported by parents (Schreibman, Kaneko, & Koegel, 1991). Second, in order to create a functional relationship, there must be a genuine rela- tionship between the behavior and the consequence. In other words, a child with ASD who requests “train” should be given the train to play with as the consequence, not candy or a high five or praise (“good talking”). Behaviors that are functional to the child should be taught. That is, behaviors (such as mands) that are likely to get this kind of response from the environment should be selected. Play and social skills are functional skills for children. As a child develops, one can see that a toddler will explore toys to play with. As the child grows, the preschooler, though most inter- ested in play with toys, has an emerging interest in other children as playmates. During the elementary years, the peer group then becomes of paramount importance to the child, as the child participates in athletic and group games. These play