autism. Persistence was defined as making verbal initiations to play to up to three peers in spite of expe- riencing peers declining to play. Three different video clips were created and down- loaded onto the iTouch in which an undergraduate actor’s social initiation attempt to ask peers to play was accepted on her first, second, and third attempt across the three clips. The child watched the clips on the iTouch and was then told to pick a toy and find a friend to play with. If a child with autism asked a peer to play, the neurotypi- cal peer was prompted by a student therapist to either accept or reject the social initiation request. Results indicated that all four children successfully learned per- sistence in social initiations through the PVMI, maintained the target behavior at 1- and 2-month follow-ups, and generalized the target behavior to at least one untrained setting. This intervention was effective because it incorporated basic video modeling principles and a technology that was highly motivating to watch and learn from for the participants in the study. For example, participants in the study often requested to “watch their videos” when they came to their behavioral treat- ment program. Together, these studies indicate that video modeling interventions effectively facilitate the skill acquisition of many children with autism. Further, the consistently Visual Strategies and Video Modeling 80 rapid rate of acquisition suggests that video modeling interventions may be an espe- cially efficient means of promoting child progress. However, the reviewed research examines the effectiveness of video modeling interventions implemented on televi- sions or occasionally computer screens. Recent technological innovations have changed the implementation of video modeling interventions, with the treatment now being delivered on portable handheld technology (e.g., Cihak, Fahrenkrog, Ayres, & Smith, 2010; Kellems, 2010). For example, children could watch videos targeting academic skills at their school desks or clips promoting social initiations on the playground with peers. If video modeling implemented on portable handheld devices in these settings is effective, this would increase children with autism’s functioning in their natural environments. This is especially important because children with autism who make gains in one setting often fail to apply these skills when in different settings (Stokes & Baer, 1977). Further, the portability of the devices would allow the treatment to be administered in a range of different settings, which promotes generalization to untrained settings (Stokes & Baer, 1977). Increased child motivation It has been suggested that children with autism find portable handheld devices reinforcing and that using them in treatment may increase the children’s motivation to participate in and respond to the intervention (Goldsmith & LeBlanc, 2004; Harrell, 2010). More specifically, children often use these tech- nological devices to engage in highly preferred activities like watching movies or playing video games. The child may come to associate these positive experiences with the device itself, thus making interventions that use the device more enjoyable and interesting (Goldsmith & LeBlanc, 2004). Further, children with autism may prefer to engage in