with autism. Gains continued to be observed up to 3 weeks following intervention and with untrained stimuli. Video modeling has also been used to facilitate children with autism’s mastery of PECS (Cihak, Smith, Cornett, & Coleman, 2012). Although the children with autism demonstrated progress when exposed to traditional PECS procedures alone, they acquired the skills more rapidly when a modeling video was shown before the traditional intervention. Several studies used video modeling to target different types of play in children with autism. D’Ateno et al. (2003) showed video modeling clips to increase the soli- tary pretend play of a child with autism. After watching the videos, the child increased both his play actions and verbalizations. These findings were later repli- cated with a larger sample of preschool children with autism (MacDonald, Clark, Garrigan, & Vangala, 2005). Additionally, these children also exhibited unscripted play actions and verbalizations. Lydon, Healy, and Leader (2011) found that video modeling increased the scripted play actions and verbalizations of five children with autism and the children also exhibited increases in untrained settings. Another study used video modeling to teach children with autism reciprocal pre- tend play with a neurotypical peer (MacDonald, Sacramone, Mansfield, Wiltz, & 5 Lights, Camera, Action! Teaching Play and Social Skills to Children with Autism… 79 Ahearn, 2009). All three participants acquired the targeted actions and verbaliza- tions. The children also expanded on the modeled scenarios and demonstrated new actions and verbalizations. Similarly, Taylor et al. (1999) used video modeling to effectively increase the number of comments demonstrated by children during play activities. Another study successfully increased the verbal responses demonstrated by children with autism during play activities (Buggey, Toombs, Gardener, & Cervetti, 1999). Video modeling has also been used to simultaneously target multiple verbal and nonverbal social-communicative behaviors (Charlop et al., 2010). During interven- tion, the three participating children watched a video of an adult actor demonstrat- ing appropriate verbalizations, intonations, gestures, and facial expressions. After watching the video three or four times, all of the children increased their demonstra- tion of at least three of the four behaviors. Video modeling has also successfully increased more abstract social- communicative behaviors, like perspective taking (i.e., the ability to determine another person’s mental state to predict behavior) (Shipley-Benamou et al., 2002). The intervention increased three participating children’s performance on the tar- geted perspective-taking task. The children also demonstrated gains when exposed to new stimuli. Additional research has used video modeling in conjunction with other treatment strategies to increase the social-communicative skills of children with autism. For example, video modeling and prompting procedures have been found to increase the social initiations and perspective-taking abilities of children with autism (Apple, Billingsley, Schwartz, & Carr, 2005; LeBlanc et al., 2003). When used along with instructional computer programs, video modeling has also been found to increase a number of prosocial behaviors (Simpson, Langone, & Ayres, 2004). In Grosberg and Charlop (2014), a portable video modeling intervention (PVMI) was used to teach persistence in social initiations to children with