any toy offered to them, or they may not interact with any toys offered to them. When children tend to interact with many toys, adding a duration measure may help clarify which toys he likes more, which might have been overlooked when observing. For example, if he plays with all five toys at least once, but plays with the truck for 30 s, and the ball for 10 s, it is likely the truck is the favored toy. Measuring facial expressions of smiling and laughing can also be used as indicators of preference (Green & Striefel, 1988; Green, Reid, Canipe, & Gardner, 1991; Ivancic & Bailey, 1996; Realon, Favell, & Phillips, 1989). Including happiness behaviors can increase indication of preference when many toys are selected, or be used as an alternative behavior to playing when selections are not readily made. Preference for Inappropriate Behavior and Nonplay Items Unfortunately, it may be the case that some children with ASD have preference for specific play items or activities, but do not use them correctly or do so inappropri- ately (e.g., mouthing items, dropping handfuls of blocks on the floor). Other chil- dren may find entertainment with items that are not considered conventional toys (e.g., waving towels in the air, placing marker caps on fingers, and tapping on table). Often, these types of behavior are considered stereotyped behavior rather than play and commonplace among children with ASD (Kang et al., 2013). In these situa- tions, we want to increase preference for conventional toys. The first approach can involve finding out what sensory consequences the chil- dren get out of inappropriate activities with toys, so we can encourage them to engage with toys that might provide similar sensory consequences and how to do so appropriately. Conducting a free-operant preference assessment might yield hypoth- eses about the reinforcing properties of certain items or consequences produced by the manner in which they are manipulated. Several research studies have examined matching the sensory consequences of behavior maintained by automatic reinforcement (e.g., stereotyped behavior, hand mouthing, and pica), but none have explicitly done so with the goal of increasing the development of play skills (e.g., How to Teach Play 42 Lanovaz, Sladeczek, & Rapp, 2011; Piazza et al., 1998). For example, Piazza, Adelinis, Hanley, Goh, and Delia (2000) found the reductive effects of providing items that matched hypothesized sensory consequences of problem behaviors, such as dangerous jumping, hand mouthing, and saliva manipulation, were greater than providing access to highly preferred items that did not match the sensory conse- quences of problem behavior in three children with intellectual disabilities. In another approach aimed toward increasing interest in specific toys, Leaf et al. (2012, 2015) used modeling to help expand toy preferences in several children with ASD and varied intellectual functioning. In their studies, they used a pairing proce- dure that involved the children’s preferred adults manipulating toys that the children did not originally have an affinity for, in new and exciting ways. For example, the adults pretended that non-preferred