you are concerned about generalization of the target behavior to the How to Do Video Modeling 88 appropriate contexts, there are many things you can do to facilitate generalization in addition to using some of the components discussed in the Naturalistic Teaching Strategies chapter. First, you can use multiple exemplar training during video mod- eling. This means that you may make several examples or several versions of your video (usually three is sufficient) to increase the likelihood of generalization to appropriate contexts. So, for example, if you are concerned that the target behavior of “allowing enough personal space” while waiting in-line transfers to appropriate contexts, you can tape three slightly different versions of the model waiting in-line in three different settings with different children in front and behind. In addition to providing multiple exemplars, you may actually do the video modeling intervention in the context in which you want the behavior to occur. For example, we taught children with ASD to complement each other (“That was a big kick!”) and provide corresponding gestures (e.g., thumbs up) by videotaping multiple exemplars (three different compliments and three different gestures) on an iPad and presenting video modeling teaching sessions right on the kickball field (Macpherson, Charlop, & Miltenberger, 2015). In general, however, video modeling does not have to be done in context for the behavior to later be done in context. In summary, set up the scene for your videotaping so that distractions are at a minimum and the target behavior can be shot and emphasized. Filming Gather your materials, models, script, and props (usually toys), and lights, camera, action! Do you need a professional video camera? No. Do you need professional actors? No. Do you need professional lighting equipment, props, and scenery? No! The minimum requirements for video modeling filming are really quite practical. You may use any video camera, even an iPad or your smartphone, but you will want to be able to have some control over how zoomed in the shot is. Who is going to work the camera? You can. Who is going to be your model? Anyone can. Where can you do this: in a studio? No, you can do this at home, at school, in the park, and just about anywhere. You just need to take a few things into account such as ambient noise (if you film outside, you will be surprised how loud a slight breeze will be on a video or even quiet children in a classroom). You want to avoid as many unfore- seeable distractions as possible. Take a look at your models. Can you see their eyes or do they have long hair in their faces? What are your models wearing? In the first video modeling research we did (Charlop & Milstein, 1989), we taught three children with ASD to engage in conversational speech. Two of the children learned exceptionally quickly, varied their speech, and generalized their speech, while one of the children was still stuck on learning the first conversation. We