the start of each NLP trial, the teacher presents three toys that were previously selected from a preference assessment at the beginning of the ses- sion. These three toys are now presented in a mini preference assessment, as the Specific Naturalistic Strategies that Work Well for Teaching Play 62 child is instructed to “pick one.” The child now shares in the control of what is going to be played with/spoken about in the NLP session. Also, if the child changes a verbalization or indicates that he would like to play with another object, the teacher should “follow the child’s lead” and change the toys. Thus, NLP makes use of the concept of shared control to maximize the effects of momentary changes in motivat- ing operations that may work to increase reinforcer effectiveness. Box 4.4 summarizes guidelines for implementing NLP. Pivotal Response Training Pivotal response training (PRT) was derived from the natural language paradigm (NLP) and applied to other behaviors in addition to language. PRT was first described by Koegel et al. (1989) to address behaviors that, when changed, would promote collateral improvement on other behaviors and therefore were “pivotal” to the child’s progress. Such pivotal behaviors are (1) responding to multiple cues, (2) motivation, (3) self-management, and (4) initiations. The manner in which these pivotal behav- iors are taught is through the use of the components of naturalistic teaching. As such, PRT incorporates child choice of tasks and stimuli, naturalistic settings, direct Box 4.4 How to Do NLP How to do natural language paradigm 1. The therapist will sit facing the child with ASD. The child with ASD’s preferred items will be available after a preference assessment. 2. The therapist will place three items in front of the child with ASD and will tell him to “pick one.” The child with ASD will signify his choice either with a verbal or gestural indication. 3. The item(s) the child selected will be kept and the other items will be removed. 4. The therapist will verbally model an appropriate phrase two times and then model an appropriate play action while saying the phrase (e.g., if the child with ASD chooses a ball, the therapist may say “bounce ball” while bounc- ing the ball). 5. The therapist will wait 5–10 s for the child to respond (by either repeating the phrase or uttering an approximation). 6. While the child with ASD plays with the acquired item, the therapist should repeat the phrase. For example, if the child is bouncing the ball, “bounce ball, bounce ball” should be spoken several times. 7. After about 5 s of play, the therapist will say “my turn” to have the child return the item back. The same item can be used but with a different phrase (e.g., “roll ball”) or a new choice may be made. 8. Many changes of items and phrases should occur to maintain the child with ASD’s interest. 4 Keeping It Real: Naturalistic Teaching Strategies (NaTS) forfiPlay andfiSocial Skills… 63 response-reinforcer relationships, and