and consultation services. Dr. Charlop has hundreds of professional conference presentations and publications in the field of autism and has been invited to provide workshops and lectures around the globe. Her book Naturalistic and Incidental Teaching Strategies for Children with Autism Spectrum Disorder is in its second edition. She has served as an associate editor and on editorial boards on numerous behavioral-, autism-, and edu- cation-related journals. Dr. Charlop’s research areas focus on the treatment of com- munication, motivation, social skills, and behavior problems. Using technology is among her newer research interests. Parent collaboration and education is among her primary area of practice. Russell Lang is an associate professor of special educa- tion at Texas State University and a board-certified behav- ior analyst—doctoral level. Dr. Lang is also the executive director of Texas State University’s Autism Treatment Clinic. He earned a doctoral degree in special education with an emphasis in autism and developmental disabilities from the University of Texas at Austin and completed a postdoctoral researcher position at the University of California in Santa Barbara. His primary research inter- ests include teaching play and leisure skills, assistive tech- nology, and the treatment of problematic behaviors in individuals with autism spectrum disorders. He is an asso- ciate editor of the Journal of Child and Family Studies and the Journal of Developmental and Physical Disabilities . xiv Mandy Rispoli is an associate professor of special education at Purdue University and a board-certified behavior analyst—doctoral level. Dr. Rispoli is the co- director of the Purdue Autism Network. Dr. Rispoli’s research focuses on function-based assessment and interventions for challenging behavior in young chil- dren with autism spectrum disorder and on teacher pro- fessional development in the area of challenging behavior. About the Authors 1 © Springer International Publishing AG 2018 M.H. Charlop et al., Play and Social Skills for Children with Autism Spectrum Disorder , Evidence-Based Practices in Behavioral Health, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-72500-0_1 Chapter 1 More Than Just Fun and Games: Definition, Development, and Intervention for Children’s Play and Social Skills All children can play and everyone needs friends. Play and social interaction pro- vide a natural and powerful context for ongoing learning and development through- out childhood. The importance of skill acquisition in these areas has consistently been recognized by practitioners and researchers in the fields of education, develop- mental psychology, applied behavior analysis (ABA), and other related disciplines for decades (e.g., Bijou & Baer, 1961; Lifter, Foster-Sandra, Arzamarski, Briesch, & McClure, 2011; Lifter, Mason, & Barton, 2011; Lovaas, Baer, & Bijou, 1965; Piaget, 1962; Vygotsky, 1933). This widespread and long-standing recognition is due to a robust body of research linking proficiency in play and social skills to physical, intellectual, and emotional functioning as well as research demonstrating that interventions that improve children’s play and social skills may also occasion collateral gains in other areas such as language, academics, and motor skill develop- ment (Elkind, 2007; Lifter et al., 2011; Ozonoff et al., 2008; Pierucci, Barber, Gilpin, Crisler, & Klinger, 2015; Singer & Lythcott, 2004).