chil- dren with ASD. Prompting and Reinforcement Peer prompting refers to offering a physical, ver- bal, or gestural prompt to guide students with ASD to engage in desired social behaviors. For example, in order to promote verbal requesting skills of a child with ASD in a free play setting, the peer can be trained to deliver a verbal prompt (e.g., “Do you want to play with Legos™? You can say, ‘I want Legos™’”). Peers can also be trained to provide reinforcement by responding to the focus child when the focus child makes an appropriate social interaction bid. Thus, PMI allows newly acquired target social skills to be met with natural social reinforcement including access to peer attention or access to preferred materials or activities. Creating opportunities for behaviors to meet natural sources of reinforcement is one of the most powerful tools we have for promoting maintenance of newly learned behaviors (Stokes & Baer, 1977). Katz and Girolametto (2013) investigated the effects of PMI on social initiations and responses of preschoolers with ASD. First the researchers trained the teachers in strategies to support play and to provide performance feedback to peers during social interactions with the focus child. Then the researcher and teachers co-led five social skill training sessions for both the children with ASD and two peers. During these sessions the children were read a book which discussed ways of playing Peer Training 116 together and developing friendships. Following the book, the children were asked to reenact the story using puppets. After this training, the teacher supervised six play sessions in the classroom. During the play sessions, the teacher paired a focus child with a trained peer for 20 min of free play. At the beginning of the free play session, the teacher reviewed the desired social interaction behaviors using a communication board. The communication board included illustrations of a target social interaction behavior, such as initiation, responding, or turn-taking. During the play session, the teacher provided verbal prompts to peers as needed to encourage them to prompt or reinforce the focus child’s social behaviors. For example, if no interaction between the children occurred, the teachers might say to the peer, “Joey is not playing with you. Ask him to help.” The teacher also provided specific verbal praise to the peers when they initiated or responded to the focus child. Results showed that with PMI, social initiations and responses improved for all three preschoolers with ASD, maintained 4 weeks after the intervention, and generalized to untrained peers. Comprehensive Intervention Wong et al. (2014) defined a comprehensive inter- vention model for autism as a coordinated set of practices with the goal of having a broad impact on learning and development associated with core features of ASD (p. 9). Comprehensive intervention models are based on a conceptual framework, include manualized procedures, state a recommended length of time and intensity with which the program should be implemented, and address many learning out- comes (Odom, Boyd, Hall, & Hume, 2009). Examples of comprehensive interven-