typical day of the child. However, unlike incidental teaching in which one learn- ing “episode” or trial per day generally occurs, MITS provides that one learning trial but also adds on two additional rehearsal trials “in the moment” to provide more practice during the natural context. While these extra practice trials are seem- ingly “not naturalistic,” they are designed to increase the rate of learning while maintaining all other naturalistic elements of NaTS procedures. In the MITS proce- dure, a child initiates a naturalistic setting interaction, as with incidental teaching. However, the parents/teachers maintain control over the number of interactions that follow. Accordingly, MITS incorporates the benefits of incidental teaching, how- ever, with two extra rehearsal learning trials to maximize and speed learning (Charlop-Christy & Carpenter, 2000). The number of sessions in a day can also vary. On average, parents conduct two blocks of three trials each. For example, if the child initiates twice per day to play with the legos, then there would be two ses- sions with three trials each (one learning trial plus two rehearsal trials in each ses- sion). This increases the number of total trials for that day to six, but they are spread out through two sessions, which happen during the natural course of the day (Charlop-Christy & LeBlanc, 2001). Charlop-Christy and Carpenter (2000) com- pared the effects of MITS, incidental teaching, and traditional discrete trial training on children with ASD to acquire and generalize social speech. Parents were taught how to use these procedures in their homes. The results showed that while all three procedures did work, MITS was associated with rapid learning of the social speech and superior generalization of these social verbal skills within the natural environ- ments (Charlop-Christy & Carpenter, 2000; Charlop-Christy et al., 1999). Recall that MITS includes two rehearsal trials embedded with each incidental teaching trial to increase the overall number of trials in order to optimize learning. For example, there is only one opportunity per day to teach a child to say “Goodbye” to his/her mother when getting on the school bus. So, it might take several weeks or months for the child to learn to spontaneously state this greeting to his mom (e.g., Charlop, Schreibman, & Thibodeau, 1985). However, with MITS, a learning epi- sode would look like the following: 4 Keeping It Real: Naturalistic Teaching Strategies (NaTS) forfiPlay andfiSocial Skills… 67 Aiden puts on his backpack in the morning and walks to the corner with his mother. This is the usual daily event. The school bus arrives and opens its door for Aiden to get in. Mom stands in front of Aiden and waits until he gives her eye con- tact. She then models (says), “Have a good day,” and Aidan imitates “good day.” Aidan’s mom says, “Have a good day to you, Aidan. Let’s do it again.” Aidan’s mom repositions herself, waiting for her eye contact from Aidan. When he does, she says, “Have a good day.” Aidan says “Have a good day,” and