example, if the target behavior is a greeting to peers, then it may be more appro- priate and advantageous to have the peer as the model. Actors should have the script memorized prior to filming. Video modeling tapes can be made where the child is used as his/her own model. Again, it depends upon a number of factors to use the self as a model, but there is a strong point to make in favor and a strong point to be made against. The benefit of using this method is that many children love to watch themselves in the monitor, so often you get good attention. Good attention is the precursor to imitation. The big problem with using this method is that the child must have this behavior in his/her own repertoire already for it to be caught, put on video, and used for modeling. It is unlikely that the child has or displays frequently the target behavior. Another type of modeling that can be done is “model-less” modeling. This has been called point-of-view modeling. It demonstrates the target behavior as if the child is engaging in it and is self-observing. For example, the camera is placed to simulate eye level of the child, and the modeling is filmed from that angle. Scene Setup Filming should take place in a very plain open space, with as few distractions as possible. The target behavior should be made very clear. Ideally, only those objects necessary in displaying the completion of the target behavior should be present. Familiar or well-liked toys can be used in the film (if appropriate) to increase the attention of the participant. Keep it simple! The fewer distractions, the better. If the target behavior is one that needs to happen while embedded in a group (circle time within a classroom, line up to enter classroom, play on the playground, etc.), the scene in the video should be void of these distractions. That is, the behav- ior should be displayed with as few other persons as possible or with other persons in the video but with noise edited out. The video scene should be set up to show only the target behavior, with the background scene just that, in the background. True, the child needs to learn the behavior in context, and the context may naturally include distractions, noise, many other children, and so on. But, the purpose of video modeling is NOT to make the scene as similar to the exact environment, but to provide an easy-to-imitate behavior to later be acted out in the appropriate envi- ronment. Remember that as briefly presented above, there is a huge body of scien- tific literature demonstrating that video modeling works very well for a wide variety of behaviors, including play and social behaviors, and that when taught this way, with the scenes highlighting the behavior not the context, the children do generalize to the appropriate contexts. So, the scene setup is done to provide minimal distractions and accentuate the behavior. If