approach has guidelines for target behaviors and goals aimed at changes in pivotal areas to facilitate collateral changes in others. Self-management Self-management procedures have been used to teach a wide variety of social skills to children with ASD. First, the children are trained to monitor their own behavior (Deitchman, Reeve, Reeve, & Progar, 2010; Southall & Gast, 2011). The teacher then identifies a specific behavior that the child should increase or decrease and sets a goal for how many times this behavior should occur in a specific time period or during a certain activity (e.g., five initiations in 30 min or taking five turns during a board game). The child with ASD is also taught to record the occurrence or nonoc- currence of the target behavior and self-evaluate the frequency of the behavior recorded. When a child achieves the predetermined goal, the child provides the preselected reinforcer to himself or reports to the teacher to be awarded the reinforcer. There are a number of studies showing the efficacy of self-monitoring upon the social skills of children with ASD (Lee, Simpson, & Shogren, 2007; Southall & Gast, 2011). In one study, four children were taught how to use a wrist counter to monitor providing answers to questions (Koegel, Koegel, Hurley, & Frea, 1992). Generalization of appropriate responses occurred at home and in community set- tings. Disruptive behaviors were also decreased. Variation in verbal responses and play behaviors were also increased via self- monitoring (i.e., pretend play and drawing) (Newman, Reinecke, & Meinberg, 2000). During baseline, three children with ASD demonstrated high frequencies of restricted and repetitive behaviors (e.g., repeating the same verbal answer or play sequence). During treatment, the children were initially taught to correctly self- monitor these behaviors with the therapist and then independently. The children did not self-monitor their behavior with a high degree of accuracy, but they still demon- strated significantly more variation in the target behaviors. Stahmer and Schreibman (1992) implemented a treatment package that included a component of self-management to increase appropriate play. Three children with ASD were first trained to discriminate between appropriate and inappropriate play behaviors and then to monitor their own play behaviors during intervals gradually increasing in length. As in the previously discussed study, the children were not always accurate in their self-management, but still increased their demonstration of appropriate play and continued to do so during independent play. These studies indicate that self-management is a procedure that increases social and play behaviors of children with ASD. Although self-management has not shown 4 Keeping It Real: Naturalistic Teaching Strategies (NaTS) forfiPlay andfiSocial Skills… 65 to be something that children with ASD can master, it is still associated with treat- ment gains. As well, self-management programs maintain several advantages that other treatment approaches do not. First, increasing of one’s own behavior can often result in change of that behavior (Cooper et al., 2007). Self-management programs are designed to enable the child to run his or her own program, eventually in any setting. Thus,