learning (Bandura, 1965; Dowrick, 1986). The first video modeling study to teach conversational speech to children with autism was conducted by Charlop and Milstein (1989). In this study, three boys with autism were taught using video modeling to participate in a conversation about preferred toys. Results demonstrated that all three participants successfully learned conversations through the video modeling intervention, as well as generalized this skill to other toys, people, and settings. The participants also maintained their con- versational speech skills over a 15-month period. Charlop, Gilmore, and Chang (2008) built upon Charlop and Milstein’s study (1989) to teach variation in conver- sational speech to two boys with autism using video modeling. Six sets of toys (i.e., robot and typewriter, Big Bird and Bert, car and a jet transformer) served as the basis for seven conversation scripts used during video modeling. For example, for Conversation A, about a robot and a typewriter, the child was presented with five versions of the conversation, A1, A2, A3, A4, and A5. Each of these versions con- sisted of different lines of the script, in order for the child to learn how to generate varied responses. In addition, the toys that served as the basis of the conversation Visual Strategies and Video Modeling 76 were changed regularly. This was done so that the child had to learn how to talk about the toys present, as opposed to responding based on memorized lines from the scripted conversations modeled for them. Not only did results replicate the previous rapid effects of video modeling of Charlop and Milstein (1989), but this study also demonstrated the efficacy of multiple conversation presentation formats to increase variation in conversation for children with ASD. Generalization probes also sug- gested generalization for both stimuli and responses. In addition, this research bypassed the limitations of previous interventions by teaching variation in conversa- tion speech under naturalistic conditions and with a variety of conversational part- ners (i.e., another peer with ASD, a typically developing peer, and a sibling at home). Video Modeling Procedures and Perceived Advantages Video modeling was devel- oped to address the negative effects of stimulus overselectivity and increase the efficiency of teaching children with autism via observation. Although videos vary in their procedures, many are filmed to focus on the relevant stimuli and present the different components separately so that only one action or verbalization is shown at a time. The videos also allow service providers to repeatedly present a standardized clip of the targeted behavior (Charlop-Christy et al., 2000; McCoy & Hermansen, 2007). In addition, video modeling allows the treatment provider to have complete control over the modeled scenario as the treatment provider can film and edit the scenario until satisfied. Practically, video modeling is less expensive and time- consuming than live modeling (Charlop-Christy et al., 2000; McCoy & Hermansen, 2007; Thelen, Fry, Fehrenbach, & Frautschi, 1979). Empirical Support Existing research indicates that video modeling is a more effective means of inter- vention than in vivo (or live) modeling. Using a