family. One way to determine what skills are developmentally appropriate is to administer developmental assessments, such as the Hawaii Early Learning Profile for Preschoolers (HELP), the Battelle Developmental Inventory, or the Preschool Language Scale with the focus child. It may also be helpful to observe the social interaction and play behaviors of typically developing peers. This can be done anecdotally or with an ecological congruence assessment (see Table 7.1). This allows the interventionist to compare the focus child’s skills to those of his/her peers How to Implement Peer-Mediated Interventions 118 in order to identify developmentally appropriate areas for improvement. Interventionists should always consult with the child’s family to determine what behaviors the family values and would like their child to improve. The interventionist should collect pre-intervention (baseline) data on the focus child’s use of the target skills before implementing PMI. This will enable the inter- ventionist to select an achievable goal and to set the stage for evaluating the effects of PMI on the target behavior. Collecting baseline data involves assessing the child at his/her present state, before presenting any form of intervention. The data collec- tion process does not need to be complicated or time-consuming in any way. Simply tallying the occurrence of a behavior or timing its duration may be sufficient. The interventionist can collect baseline data by observing the focus child and making a mark each time the child engages in the target behavior. When the target behavior is a response to a peer’s behavior, it can be helpful to take data on both the peer and the focus child’s behaviors. For example, if the target behavior is responding to peer initiations, then the number of initiations the peer makes should be counted along with the number of the focus child’s responses to those initiations. These can then be converted to a percentage of initiations with responding by dividing the number of responses by the total number of initiations (see Table 7.2). Because responding can vary from day to day, the interventionist should collect baseline data across several days to obtain a more accurate picture of the child’s pre-intervention behaviors. Baseline is the starting point before PMI has been implemented, so expect low levels of the target behavior. Where and When Will PMI Take Place? After the target behavior has been cho- sen, the interventionist must plan where and when PMI will take place. The activity and setting should be based on where the child would naturally engage in the target behavior. If the target behavior is imitating peers’ gross motor play behaviors, then the playground would be a logical setting to conduct PMI. If the target behavior is requesting preferred materials, then conducting PMI during snack or free play would be appropriate. The interventionist should also examine the child’s daily schedule to determine when motivation to engage in the target behavior would be high. For example, if Table 7.1 Sample ecological congruence assessment Activity/ routine Observation Interpretation Notes Arrival Is the child doing the same thing