For children who have difficulty selecting from an array, or have motor limitations that make reaching and grabbing challenging, the single-stimulus presentation assess- ment can be used (e.g., Pace, Ivancic, Edwards, Iwata, & Page, 1985). The single- stimulus method involves presenting toys to a child, one at a time, and recording whether or not the child takes and plays with the toy (i.e., approaches), or chooses not to play with the toy (i.e., avoidance). Items with greater numbers of approach behavior are considered as more preferred than those that the child did not play with very often. To increase accuracy of preference and potential for reinforcing effectiveness relative to other toys, the paired-stimulus or “forced-choice” method can be used (Fisher, Piazza, Bowman, Hagopian, Owens, & Slevin, 1992). The paired-stimulus method takes the same selection of toys that would be presented in a single-stimulus presentation but instead presents them two at a time, until all possible combinations of toys are presented together. Although somewhat time consuming, this approach can provide insight into what toys children like more than other toys. This approach can also be useful with children who have a tendency to grab or explore any toy given to them. Finally, DeLeon and Iwata’s (1996) multiple-stimulus method (with- out replacement; MSWO) offers similar rank ordering of toy preference as the paired-stimulus, yet can take considerably less time to administer because more toys are presented at a given time. In the MSWO approach, the child is first given How to Teach Play 40 30 s to play with each toy. Next, all the toys are arranged on a table (or floor), and the child is instructed to pick one toy to play with from the array. After the child makes a selection, he plays with it again for 30 seconds. Next the teacher or thera- pist removes that item from view and then rearranges the positions of the remaining toys. For example, if ten toys were originally presented, then the second test will involve only nine toys. The child is asked to make another selection from the toys that remain, and this process is repeated until five selections are made. In this man- ner, the item selected first can be considered the most preferred, and so on, down through the selections Table 3.1. Considerations and Trouble-Shooting There are some considerations when systematically assessing preferences. For example, Mangum, Fredrick, Pabico, and Roane (2012) found that items may func- tion as reinforcers, and children may enjoy playing with them, even though they weren’t identified as highly preferred in a preference assessment. In their study, the Table 3.1 Types of preference assessments and steps Preference assessment Steps Free-operant (observation) 1. Arrange all toys (5–10) the child is reported to enjoy on a table or on the floor 2. Instruct the child to play with the toys 3. Record the total duration of engagement with each toy the child plays with, until 5-min elapses 4. Toys with more time spent for engagement suggest higher preference