that sometimes a reinforcer is available, but not every time, and if this is the expectation, the newly learned behavior will not extinguish. • Teach the child to learn how to accept delayed contingencies in that a rein- forcer will be provided, but just not right away. This is what happens in the natural environment! 4 Keeping It Real: Naturalistic Teaching Strategies (NaTS) forfiPlay andfiSocial Skills… 61 Specific Naturalistic Strategies that Work Well for Teaching Play Natural Language Paradigm (NLP) The natural language paradigm (NLP) was designed to combine aspects of discrete trial language-based programs (i.e., Lovaas, Koegel, Simmons, & Long, 1973) with naturalistic programs, such as the mand-model procedure (Rogers-Warren & Warren, 1980). While NLP was designed to teach language, it has a large play com- ponent so will be discussed here. NLP was originally designed by Koegel, O’Dell, and Koegel (1987) and expanded upon by Laski, Charlop, and Schreibman (1988) as a motivation-oriented procedure that is fun for both the child and the therapist (parent). There are four basic components of NLP (i.e., direct reinforcement, turn- taking, task variation with multiple exemplars, and shared control), each of which is discussed in more detail. Direct Reinforcement Direct reinforcement of verbal attempts such as “cah” as an approximation of “car” as the teacher rolls the toy car. The reinforcement consists of access to the object used in the demonstration (functionally related item). Eventually more is required of the child to access reinforcement. Shaping or the direct reinforcement of successive approximations increases motivation by maxi- mizing the likelihood of the child’s success, while the use of natural reinforcers enhances functional relationships and generalization. Turn-Taking The second component is turn-taking with the toys. Both the teacher and the child take turns talking about and playing with the toy. The teacher models a verbalization (says “car”) about the toy while engaging in a play activity with the toy (i.e., rolling the car). When the child either imitates or attempts to imitate the verbalization, the teacher gives the child the toy for a few seconds for “his turn.” The teacher then says “my turn” and takes the toy and models another phrase about the toy. This turn-taking process facilitates generalization by increasing the similarity between the NLP sessions and play. Turn-taking adds a more game-like or play atmosphere to the work session, which may facilitate motivation. Overall NLP increases turn-taking, and turn-taking is a developmentally appropriate social skill. Task Variation and the Use of Multiple Exemplars NLP uses a variety of toys to illustrate a particular phrase and uses a variety of phrases to describe a particular toy. For example, the teacher can model “car rolls” but then would also model “truck rolls” while demonstrating the rolling movement with the toys. Additionally, the teacher may say “car goes vroom” for the toy car but will also vary the phrase and say “car stops” or “truck goes vroom.” This variation makes the speech training ses- sion more fun and also promotes generalization. Shared Control At