that is implemented within everyday activities and rou- tines (McConachie & Diggle, 2007). Parent-implemented intervention has been shown to be beneficial for the child with ASD and also for the entire family unit. When parents implement interventions, their children can access intervention at a very young age (Hancock & Kaiser, 2002; Wetherby & Prizant, 1992), which, in turn, can lead to responsive parent-child interactions and improved language devel- opment (Siller, Hutman, & Sigman, 2013). Parent-implemented interventions have been shown to improve outcomes for young children with ASD. When parents implement interventions, the child is able to access learning opportunities in their natural environment (e.g., home, commu- nity settings) and may be able to benefit from intervention beyond the clinical 130 treatment setting (Koegel, Bimbela, & Schreibman, 1996). Furthermore, when parents and professionals implement interventions consistently, children are able to acquire new skills more efficiently and successfully (Kaiser & Hancock, 2003). Background and Theoretical Constructs Family-Centered Approach When a pebble is tossed into the center of a pond, a small splash is made, and a small ripple of water develops. This small ripple gradually travels from the center of the pond all the way to the pond’s edges. Though the pebble entered only one spot of the pond, the entire pond was impacted. Like the pebble in the pond, when some- thing occurs with one family member, all family members become affected through an interconnected system. This is known as family systems theory (Bowen, 1974) and is a foundation for a family-centered approach to intervention. To observe the family as an interconnected system, let’s examine the communi- cation interactions between parents and their children with ASD. Children with ASD often have difficulty initiating and responding to social interactions. As a result, a child with ASD may not respond to his/her parents’ bids for social interac- tion. When parents’ bids for social interaction are unsuccessful, they will be less likely to make social bids in the future. Thus, the number and quality of parent-child interactions remain low or may even decrease. These limited interactions can lead to parents feeling stress and even feeling disconnected from their child. Simultaneously, the child remains socially and communicatively isolated from the family (Zaidman-Zait et al., 2014). However, when parents are taught specific inter- ventions to gain their child’s attention and to interact with their child, the child will be more likely to respond, and the parents’ social interaction bids will be met with positive social interaction (Norton & Drew, 1994). This strengthens, or reinforces, parents’ attempts to interact with their child, and parents will be more likely to initi- ate interaction in the future. More social bids from the parent mean more opportuni- ties for the child to practice and improve their social interaction skills (Shire, Gulsrud, & Kasari, 2016). In addition to the development of reciprocal social inter- actions, parents have reported less stress and more confidence once they are equipped with the tools and strategies they need to help their child (Cidav, Marcus, &