for the day. Peers were taught to stay in the same center as their buddy, to play with 7 Want tofiPlay? Peer-Mediated Intervention forfiYoung Children withfiAutism… 111 their buddy, and to talk to their buddy. Data were collected on four social and play behaviors: requesting toys, gaining a peer’s attention appropriately, taking turns, and looking at the person who is speaking. Results showed that the children with ASD engaged in more appropriate social interactions with their peers during the “stay, play, and talk” intervention. Teachers reported that the intervention was fea- sible to implement in their classrooms and that the children with and without dis- abilities appeared to enjoy the peer-buddy system. Katz and Girolametto (2013) evaluated PMI using a small triad approach across three inclusive daycare classrooms. In each classroom, a child with ASD and two typically developing peers participated. Observations of social interaction (initia- tions and responses) were conducted during free play centers. The peers were taught to initiate and maintain play interactions with the child with ASD. Results showed that the number of social interactions between the child with ASD and both his/her peers increased during the PMI condition for children in all three classrooms and maintained during 1-month follow-up observations. PMI is one of the most successful approaches for improving social skills in chil- dren with ASD (Bass & Mulick, 2007; Chang & Locke, 2016). Some research sug- gests that PMI is more effective in teaching social responding rather than social initiations (Rogers, 2000). One reason for this could be that initiating social interac- tion is a more difficult skill than responding for children with ASD (Conroy, Boyd, Asmus, & Madera, 2007; Katz & Girolametto, 2015). A second explanation may be that it is more difficult to teach peers to provide opportunities for a child with ASD to initiate than it is to teach peers to provide opportunities for the child with ASD to respond (Bass & Mulick, 2007). Play Skills Peers are natural models of developmentally appropriate play behav- iors. Typically developing children play with one another, engage in novel play behaviors, and develop creative themes to guide their play (Kamps et al., 2002; Mason et al., 2014). In contrast, children with ASD often play alone and engage with materials in a repetitive fashion (Chang & Locke, 2016; Mason et al., 2014). Intervention is often required to increase interaction during play between children with ASD and their peers and to create a larger repertoire of play behaviors. To promote maintenance and generalization of play skills, it makes sense to have peers model and teach play behaviors, rather than having adults teach these play behav- iors to children with ASD and hoping those play skills transfer to peers. PMI has been used to teach toy play (e.g., Kamps et al., 2014; Odom & Strain, 1986; Pierce & Schreibman, 1997), to teach toy sharing (e.g., Odom & Watts, 1991), and to teach cooperative play (e.g., Knapczyk, 1989). Pierce and Schreibman (1997) implemented PMI to increase cooperative play