his mom then says, “Have a good day. Again, that was so good. Let’s practice one more time.” When Aidan looks at his mom, she says, “Have a good day,” and waits for him to respond with “Have a good day.” At this point Aidan’s mom says, “Have a good day. You did a great job! Enjoy school!” For this behavior, the “Have a good day” send-off to school, treatment is over for the day. But Aidan’s mother provided three learning trials within a time frame that would have ordinarily taken 3 days if she were using an incidental teaching proce- dure (one trial per day as per a naturally occurring daily event). These trials took place at the naturally occurring time and place, and although the trials were repeated a couple of times, they are naturalistic and occurred by the school bus, during the morning, with mother, and when the child was at send-off to school. Box 4.6 pro- vides a summary of MITS considerations. Conclusion Naturalistic teaching strategies are designed for all who can provide treatment pro- cedures in the child with ASD. This would include not only therapists and teachers, but parents, siblings, and peers. NaTS have been shown in the literature to be effec- tive not only for acquisition of social and play behaviors but tend to have superior Box 4.6 How to Do MITS How to do multiple incidental teaching sessions 1. Identify the behavior you want to teach and the naturally occurring setting during the day when it would likely occur. 2. Decide on the specific way you are going to teach the behavior (i.e., use modeling prompt, mand-model, milieu training, etc.). 3. When the child initiates the learning episode, his behavior should be rein- forced. Remember that there are three trials; the first one should receive praise. (a) Say, “Let’s practice this,” and praise but do not provide access to the natural reinforcer. (b) Repeat the trial two more times and provide the desired item as the reinforcer. Conclusion 68 outcomes when it comes to generalization and maintenance over time. These proce- dures have been noteworthy because they have been reported to be not only more pleasant for the children but for the change agents as well. NaTS can turn the every- day natural environment of children with ASD into an easily accessible setting of continued improvement. References Alpert, C. L., & Kaiser, A. P. (1992). Training parents as milieu language teachers. Journal of Early Intervention , 16 , 31–52. Basso, T., Charlop, M. H., & Gumaer, C. (2017). Increasing joint attention through teaching func- tional play . Unpublished manuscript. Claremont, CA: Claremont McKenna College. Bojak, S. L., & Carr, J. E. (1999). On the displacement of leisure items by food during multiple- stimulus preference assessments. Journal of Applied Behavior Analysis , 32 , 515–518. Bowman, L. G., Piazza, C. C., Fisher, W. W., Hagopian, L. P., & Kogan, J. S. (1997). Assessment of preference for varied versus constant reinforcers. Journal of Applied