and peers are not taught effective evidence- based practices and training parents or peers to implement an ineffective treatment is not an evidence-based approach. Factors that Influence Treatment Selection Although essentially the same evidence-based practices were identified across agencies (Tables 2.1, 2.2, and 2.3), many children with ASD are still routinely exposed to nonevidence-based practices. For example, Hess, Morrier, Heflin, and Ivey (2008) examined what was being provided to children with ASD in schools and found that less than 10% could be considered evidence-based. Similarly, Hanson et al. (2007) surveyed parents and found that nearly 71% of treatments selected by parents lacked a supporting evidence base. This discrepancy between the scientific evidence base and what is actually done in practice is often referred to as the research-to-practice gap. The research-to-practice gap results in missed opportuni- ties, wasted resources (e.g., time and money), and, in some cases, harm to the child receiving intervention. Nonevidence-based practices are sometimes referred to as “pseudoscientific” or described as “fads,” particularly when the treatment is described and marketed using scientific terms or concepts in unsubstantiated or misleading ways (Foxx & Mulick, 2015). There is a staggeringly large number of treatments and interventions that claim to improve the social and play skills for children with ASD that can be described as pseudoscientific fads. Although an intervention may be “new,” that does not always mean it is “improved.” For example, Green and colleagues (2006) surveyed 552 parents of children with ASD and identified 108 distinctly different treatment packages that were received by children with ASD. Over 50% of those treatments were never systematically investigated by researchers. In other cases, the 2 New Is Not Always Improved: Evidence-Based Practice infiPlay andfiSocial Skills… 29 treatment was researched but was found to be ineffective and/or unsafe (e.g., facili- tated communication). Regrettably, there are many commonly provided interven- tions with almost no supporting evidence (e.g., Reichow, Barton, Sewell Neely, Good, & Wolery, 2010; Wallen, 2012). In order to better understand the reasons why parents of children with ASD may select pseudoscientific treatments over evidence-based options, Green (2007) inter- viewed parents to identify (a) where parents obtained information about treatment options and (b) the factors they considered when selecting between treatment options. The three most common sources of information identified by parents included Internet sites, advice from other parents, and recommendations from prac- titioners specializing in the intervention approach being considered (e.g., occupa- tional therapists recommending sensory integration therapy). When considering these sources of information, parents indicated that their decision was based on (a) perceived ease of implementation, (b) time commitment, and (c) anecdotal reports suggesting an approach might be effective. Similar results were also found when large diverse groups of parents were surveyed (e.g., Miller, Schreck, Mulick, & Butter, 2012). Unfortunately, these sources of information (e.g., professional organization Internet sites) often provide little guidance in comparing treatment options and/or actually disseminate unsubstantiated claims regarding pseudoscientific interven- tions (e.g., Stephesnson, Carter, & Kemp, 2012). Further, factors such as ease of implementation—although clearly important—are