and numbers. They may also learn sight words or be hyperlexic yet lack reading comprehension. Their obsessions or insistence upon sameness is based on visual dimensions. For instance, a child may have a preference for any sticklike attributes, organize according to color or shape, or need a certain route to the supermarket. These are all visual dimensions. To the contrary, skills that are learned via the auditory domain, most 5 Lights, Camera, Action! Teaching Play and Social Skills to Children with Autism… 73 notably speech and language, are a pervasive deficit for children with ASD. In fact, children with ASD may vocalize, as in echolalia (or “scripting”) but do know the meaning of what they are saying. One of the most well-known quotes, spoken by one of Leo Kanner’s first diagnosed child with infantile autism was, “Don’t throw the dog off the balcony” which depicts the non-communicative verbal utterance of a child’s delayed echolalia in Leo Kanner’s office. What was known about this vocalization was that this child’s parent had scolded him prior to the appointment with Kanner about dropping his stuffed animal off the balcony of their hotel room the day before. We also know that children with ASD have higher nonverbal IQ scores than ver- bal IQ scores. Lincoln, Courchesne, Kilman, Elmasian, and Allen (1988) studied persons with ASD aged 8–29 years on the WISC and WAIS and found that these participants did best on the visual subtests of block design and object assembly and did worst on verbal comprehension subtests. Rumsey and Hamburger (1988) stud- ied men with ASD, as compared with neurotypical controls on a neuropsychologi- cal test battery and found that men with ASD did worse on verbal tasks than the neurotypical controls but that there were no differences on the visual tasks. Ozonoff, Pennington, and Rogers (1991) studied persons with ASD aged 8–20 years and compared them with neurotypical controls on a battery of visual and verbal tasks. The outcome was that the persons with ASD did worse on verbal tasks, and like the Rumsey and Hamburger (1988) study, there were no differences on visual tasks. Finally, Minshew, Goldstein, and Siegel (1997) administered neuropsychological battery of tests and compared teens and adults with ASD with neurotypical controls. Similarly, the participants with ASD did worse on verbal tasks, with no difference on spatial tasks between the two groups. These studies all point to superior visual processing in persons with ASD and poorer verbal understanding. There are many visual strategies that of recent have shown to be efficacious with children with ASD. Included in these evidence-based visual strategies are picture activity schedules and the Picture Exchange Communication System (PECS) (Frost & Bondy, 1994). These visually based systems have been pivotal in teaching chil- dren with ASD. Video modeling, discussed in this chapter, remains quite applicable to social skills and play behaviors. Visual Strategies and Video Modeling Video modeling is a visual strategy, based on Bandura’s in vivo modeling paradigm. Video modeling is a commonly utilized intervention