cost more than a similar item at a regular toy store and may or may not last longer, and (2) they are less likely to be in the natural environment and thus do not serve as common stimuli that facilitate generalization. Allow the child with ASD that you are working with the benefits of having toys similar to the ones other chil- dren have. Finally, mediated generalization is when the children are taught behaviors that they can take from one setting to another. Essentially, this behavior is “portable” and can go from the treatment setting to the natural environment. The most common mediator is language (Charlop, 1983). Play and social skills are also common medi- ators because these behaviors are often occasioned in a variety of environments; peers, siblings, and families call upon these skills. Additional guidance for support- ing generalization is provided in Box 4.3. Three Basic Components of NaTS 60 Box 4.3 Promoting Generalization Promoting generalization across stimuli, people, and settings Generalization context Strategy Across stimuli 1. Use multiple items from the natural environment. Use several examples to teach one concept and replace with different examples. 2. For example, if you are teaching “cup,” use different colored cups, different textured cups, different sizes, and so on. 3. Use real objects (not obscure “educational stimuli”) that are meaningful to the child. Get a cup from the child’s home, school, etc. Put water or juice in the cup and have the reinforcer a natural part of learning “cup.” Across people 1. Use multiple change agents—don’t just have one or two therapists. 2. Do parent training and have parents deliver the treatment at home (both mom and dad). 3. Have siblings participate in treatment and/or deliver treatment. 4. Other natural persons in the child’s life should participate in the treatment, such as grandparents and peers. 5. In school, have all personnel knowledgeable and trained on the child’s treatment and have aides, teachers, speech therapists, and other personnel coordinated. Across settings 1. Make treatment setting as similar to the natural setting as possible; use a play setting instead of an artificial treatment setting. 2. Treat in multiple settings including home and community settings such as outside, park settings, group settings, and social settings with other children. 3. Make treatment settings more like natural setting by loosening up structure, thinning reinforcement schedule, and using natural reinforcers. “Rules of thumb”: Generalization and reinforcement • Use reinforcers found in the natural environment. The natural environment does not have persons standing around saying “Good talking” with hand- fuls of M&M’s! If the child is expecting this, and these contingencies aren’t available, the newly learned behavior will extinguish. • Use intermittent schedules of reinforcement so that the child does not receive a reinforcer each time she engages in a behavior. In the real world, a child does not receive a “high five” or really any type of reinforcer every time a behavior is performed. This does not happen in the natural environ- ment. The child should expect