Theoretical Constructs 110 PMI Improves Outcomes for Children with ASD Research has shown that PMI improves a variety of outcomes for children with ASD including reduction of challenging behavior (Chung et al., 2007; Lee, Odom, & Loftin, 2007), improved communicative behaviors (e.g., Trembath, Balandin, Togher, & Stancliffe, 2009), and turn-taking and sharing (Harper, Symon, & Frea, 2008). PMI has been applied with older children with ASD to improve academic behaviors such as reading fluency (e.g., Kamps et al., 1994), reading comprehen- sion (e.g., Kamps, Leonard, Potucek, & Garrison-Harrell, 1995), sight word recog- nition (e.g., Kamps, Dugan, Potucek, & Collins, 1999), and math skills (e.g., Hunt, Staub, Alwell, & Goetz, 1994). However, the primary outcomes targeted with PMI include social interaction and play skills (Chan et al., 2009; Chang & Locke, 2016; Watkins et al., 2015). Social Interaction Skills Given their deficits in social communication skills, chil- dren with ASD are less likely to engage with their peers. Compounding this issue, when peers do initiate social interactions, the child with ASD may not respond to those initiations, thereby decreasing the chance the peer will initiate again in the future. PMI lends itself most naturally to teaching social interaction behaviors between children with ASD and their peers. Indeed, the majority of studies evaluat- ing PMI have targeted improvement in children’s social interaction skills (Chan et al., 2009; Chang & Locke, 2016). Social interaction skills have included initiating social interaction (Banda & Hart, 2010), responding to social bids from peers (Radley et al., 2015), conversational turn-taking (Harper et al., 2008), and engaging in joint attention (Schleien, Mustonen, & Rynders, 1995). Overall, research results have shown improvements in both the quality and quantity of social interactions of children with ASD following PMI (Chang & Locke, 2016; Katz & Girolametto, 2015; Watkins et al., 2015). PMI has been implemented as part of a structured approach, such as pivotal response training, through arranging class-wide social structures such as peer bud- dies or peer networks, or in specially selected dyads or small groups of children with ASD and a peer. Pivotal response training involves the application of applied behavior analysis in natural interactions. When pivotal response training is imple- mented through PMI, peers are taught to gain the child’s attention, provide the child with choices, model appropriate behaviors, acknowledge the child when he/she engages in appropriate behavior, such as engaging and extending conversations, taking turns, and narrating play activities (Pierce & Schreibman, 1995). For exam- ple, Harper et al. (2008) taught typically developing peers to use pivotal response training with two 8- and 9-year-old boys with ASD. The peers were taught to prompt and reinforce the child with ASD to initiate social interactions and to take turns. Laushey and Heflin (2000) evaluated a class-wide peer-buddy intervention “stay, play, and talk” (English, Goldstein, Kaczmarek, & Shafer, 1996) to teach two 5-year-old boys with ASD and their typically developing classmates to play together during free play center time. The children in the class were assigned to a peer buddy