toys were another toy or activity that the chil- dren enjoyed such as a train. The researchers also used the non-preferred toys in creative ways such as taking a toy dinosaur and making it fly or giving it baths in the sink. Their results indicated that all children selected the toys that the adults had played with in novel ways, more often than the toys they typically had a preference for. In sum, there are several approaches to discovering toys and play activities that might be preferred by children with ASD. Using preferred items in play training may therefore increase the probability of approach and subsequent engagement with toys and play partners. For children who do not show interest in toys and play items, observation, matching, and modeling may serve as methods to promote exploratory and more complex forms of play. General Prompting Procedures This section will focus on how to teach play to children with autism spectrum dis- order. Since basic prompting and modeling procedures have been presented in many applied behavior analysis texts, this chapter will focus on the types of play and how to adapt basic prompting and modeling to these types of play. As always, whenever using prompting procedures, there is always the concern that the children with ASD will become “prompt dependent.” This means that the prompt becomes a necessary component and thus needs to be faded out of play instruction. This is often quite difficult to do and frequently requires many fading steps. For this reason, the reader is encouraged to consider other procedures presented in this book such as naturalis- tic teaching strategies, picture activity schedules and other visual strategies, and video modeling which often do not use the traditional prompting techniques and therefore do not require prompt fading. Traditional prompting techniques are described in Table 3.2. 3 All Children Can Play: Prompting andfiModeling Procedures tofiTeach Play… 43 Play Interventions Imitation to Teach Functional Play Many children with ASD do not play with toys appropriately and instead are either disinterested in them or use toys in a stereotypic way. Since toy play is a socially and age-referenced behavior, it is important to be taught. Also, as stated above, as toy play increases, stereotypy decreases. Box 3.1 lists the steps to teach simple imi- tation of functional use of toys. Basically, the therapist models an appropriate action with a toy, and the child imitates the action and receives reinforcement. Table 3.2 Types of prompting procedures Prompt type Prompt procedure Definition and example Physical prompts Modeling This is a demonstration of the desired behavior. There are many types of modeling, but in general, for a modeled behavior in this category of physical prompts, it usually entails the change agent merely engaging in the play behavior (either all or part of it) Physical guidance This is when a therapist uses his or her hand to guide a child’s hands or body to play correctly. For example, if the expectation is for the child to stack building