peer practice sessions with adult feedback. During the practice sessions, the adults prompted the peers to use the previously taught skills and pro- vided reinforcement and feedback immediately after each session. In addition to training peers prior to PMI, teachers should prepare the environ- ment to support peers’ use of target strategies and to oversee peer behavior during the PMI sessions. Preparing the environment may include presenting visual cues to remind the peers of the behaviors they should be implementing. For example, Storey et al. (1993) placed posters of photos that illustrate children engaging in target social skills around the room. In some studies, teachers delivered verbal or gestural cues to the peers to prompt them to engage in specific behaviors (Goldstein, Schneider, & Thiemann, 2007). For instance, a teacher might approach a peer and quietly say, “Now would be a good time to ask Timmy to play blocks with you.” Teachers should offer praise and reinforcement for desired peer behaviors and offer redirection and error correction when peers stray from the target strategies. Peer Training 114 Praise may be sufficient for some children without the addition of a tangible reinforcer (Kamps et al., 2002). In other cases, peers may benefit from token econ- omy systems in which points are earned for engaging in desired behaviors during the PMI session. Odom and Strain (1986) designed a token economy system in which peers earned happy faces on an index card each time the peer responded to an extended focus child’s social interaction. Once each circle on the card was filled with a happy face, the peer could exchange the card for a backup reinforcer, such as a sticker, a crayon, or a small toy. PMI requires careful planning in terms of peer selection and peer training. Selecting peers based on their history of interacting with the focus child with ASD, their attendance, and their social and communication skills is a critical first step. While peer training can take multiple sessions and carefully planned instruction, research shows that a variety of training components can be successfully applied to teaching peers to implement strategies with children with ASD. PMI Strategies Peers have been taught to implement many different strategies within PMI. The most common strategies include (a) peer proximity, (b) peer initiation, (c) prompt- ing and reinforcing, and (d) comprehensive programs (DiSalvo & Oswald, 2002; Watkins et al., 2015). Below we provide an overview of each of these strategies along with recent research example. Proximity A hallmark of inclusive education and a prerequisite for PMI is proxim- ity between children with ASD and typically developing children. Proximity inter- ventions do not usually require specific peer training, but do require careful planning and implementation. In proximity-based PMI, the teacher carefully arranges the environment so that peers with good social, communication, and/or play skills are in the same area or group as the focus child. Preparing the environment in this way is designed to promote social interaction between the selected peers and the focus child