toy. A sample task analysis is offered in Box 5.2. Notice that the task analysis consists of the correct way to play with the toy, but the operational definition for the child is that the child only needs to press the but- tons. What we accept as independent play may be different from the task analysis. Let’s take the case of the second example of the operational definition for the child who must push back down the pop-up mechanism. That would need to be added into this task analysis (Box 5.3). Box 5.2 Task Analysis of Play with a Cause-Effect Toy Example 1 Sequential steps to playing with cause-effect toy Preparation: Toy is placed on the table. Step 1: Push down first button on the left. Step 2: Push down second button to the left. Step 3: Push down middle button. Step 4: Push down second button to the right. Step 5: Push down last button on the right. 5 Lights, Camera, Action! Teaching Play and Social Skills to Children with Autism… 85 Your operational definition for this child, as you recall, was pushing the buttons down and closing the pop-up flap and then going on to another button. However, you may also want to require that the child not repeat buttons, move from side to side, and so on. You may make your operational definitions of independent play any way you want. For example, you might find that the child will perseverate on one button only, so you do not want to have a “loose” operational definition. Here is another task analysis that you might find interesting. Suppose the opera- tional definition is that while playing independently with this toy, the child must also repeat the animal sound the pop-up creature makes. So, for this toy, each of the five buttons triggers the pop-up mechanism of an animal with its corresponding sound (i.e., the cow pop-up makes a “moo” sound, the dog pop-up makes a “woof” sound, etc.). Since the task analysis is just a breakdown of what is going to be mod- eled, not what the child does (i.e., the operational definition), the child’s behavior does not appear in the task analysis. So, the task analysis will look the same. Incorporating time for the child to imitate the animal comes in during the making of the script, which will be based on the task analysis, but includes pauses, breaks, and so on, for child responses (see below). One way to get good at creating task analyses is for you to complete a task, while observing and recording every little step you take and everything you do in the order you do it and write it down. Below is another example of a task analysis (Box 5.4). Box 5.3 Task Analysis of Play with a Cause-Effect Toy Example 2 Sequential steps to playing with cause-effect toy Preparation: Toy is placed on the table. Step 1: Push down first button on the left. Step 2: Push down to close pop-up