are separate beings from other people and, at only weeks old, already have a tendency to attend to other people’s faces. Clearly, these must be among the earliest and most foundational of all social skills! Over the next few months of life, babies learn that their actions (behaviors) influence other people and that specific behaviors and people are associ- ated with specific social consequences, many of which are reinforcing. For example, infants learn that crying often results in reinforcement in the form of the parent bringing food, warm hugs, and dry diapers. These early infant-parent social interac- tions set the stage for other important social skills including more complex forms of communication (Bijou & Baer, 1961). Children tend to begin demonstrating a desire to play with other children around 3 years of age by attempting to initiate social interactions or by responding to the social initiations of other children more frequently (Coplan & Arbeau, 2009; Hay, Caplan, & Nash, 2009; McElwain, Ogolsky, Engle, Holland, & Mitchell, 2016). While adults are more likely to compensate for a child’s social deficits by scaffold- ing the complexity of the interaction or prompting the appropriate social response, social interactions with peers are more likely to require the child to independently adjust their own social behavior to repair or avoid social problems and communica- tion breakdowns. These more complicated requirements for successful peer interac- tion, therefore, provide both the motivation and context to learn more nuanced social skills such as negotiation, perspective-taking, cooperation, and sharing (McElwain et al., 2016). There are a number of specific social behaviors that have been the focus of research, and summary of that large body of literature is complicated by the input of multiple disciplines, each with unique approaches and perspectives. Most notably, as with play, social behavior has been studied from both the behavioral and con- structivist research traditions. Research from the behavioral (operant) paradigm has focused on observable characteristics of social behaviors and on the reinforcement contingencies involved in social interactions, while constructivist or developmental researchers have tended to focus on the biological and cognitive underpinnings of social behavior and on taxonomical systems for temperament and attachment (Matson & Wilkins, 2007; McElwain et al., 2016). Table 1.3 is intended to provide a representative overview of the social skills found most often in intervention research and provides definitions and examples drawn from both developmental and behavioral sources (Sticher, Randolph, Gage, & Schmidt, 2007; Watkins et al., 2015; Whalon, Conroy, Martinez, & Werch, 2015; White, Keonig, & Scahill, 2007). So far this chapter has provided an overview of typical play and social skill development and described how play and social interaction may facilitate ongoing Typical Social and Play Development 8 Table 1.3 Definitions and examples of social skills frequently targeted in intervention research Social skill Definition and example Importance Eye contact Focusing gaze on another person’s eyes Eye contact facilitates the expression of emotion and the accurate identification of another person’s emotions (Senju & Johnson, 2009) Imitation After observing the