and are still likely to benefit from systematic play and social skill intervention. Given the importance of social and play skills in early childhood, it is not surprising that parents of children with ASD often rate these skills among their top intervention priorities for their children regardless of their child’s level of functioning (Pituch et al., 2011). Play and Social Skills Can Be Taught The terms “development” and “emerge” seem to suggest a passive process wherein the social and play behaviors first observed in early childhood arise simply as a result of nature (e.g., genetics and physiology). Conversely, referring to play and social behaviors as “skills” that can be “acquired,” “learned,” or “mastered” sug- gests a more active process wherein skills do not emerge unless they are nurtured through interactions. The relative influences of nature and nurture on human behav- ior is a long-standing debate in the field of psychology. There is no doubt that child development in any domain is influenced by nature. For example, genetic mutations can certainly disrupt and delay the emergence of specific developmental milestones. However, it is important to recognize that a child’s environment and their history of interacting with others (nurture) also influence the acquisition of skills and it is widely accepted that both nature and nurture influence social and play behavior. For example, consider two children: one a perfectly healthy child without any illness or developmental disability (sufficient nature) neglected in an orphanage (suboptimal nurture) and another child with a genetic disorder (suboptimal nature) raised by attentive parents in an enriched environment (sufficient nurture). Although these two children may display similar social and play skill deficits, the primary cause of deficits may be very different. Regardless of the cause of deficits, because we have little control of nature (e.g., genetics, biology, and physiology), and treatments based on nature (e.g., medication) for ASD have not been demonstrated to be sufficiently effective, most efforts to ame- liorate the social and play deficits in children with ASD have focused on nurture. Specifically, these interventions involve changing the way people interact with the child and/or the arrangement or quality of the child’s immediate environment. More precisely, nurture-based (behavioral) interventions involve teaching social and play skills by systematically considering how people prompt and reinforce target social and play behaviors and by arranging environments to be supportive of skill develop- ment. Although it is true that ASD is likely caused by one or more biological factors, it is a mistake to assume that deficits attributed to nature cannot be remediated by Play and Social Skills Can Be Taught 12 nurturing skills with behavioral interventions. All children, regardless of their nature, can learn to engage in some form of play and social interaction. Specific research-based teaching procedures and intervention packages designed for children with ASD will be discussed in subsequent chapters. Those interventions require careful planning and training to implement correctly. However, even with- out specialized training, there are some simple strategies parents and early childcare providers can employ to