offlParents: Parent-Implemented Interventions forflYoung Children… 133 taught a specific strategy to produce a specific child outcome. Parent-implemented focused interventions usually include modeling, shaping, prompting, and reinforce- ment. Many of these interventions are designed to produce improvements in chil- dren’s social, communication, and play behaviors (Meadan, Ostrosky, Zaghlawan, & Yu, 2014). For example, Kashinath et al. (2006) taught the parents of five pre- schoolers with ASD to implement four focused interventions: (a) arranging the environment to promote interaction, (b) using natural reinforcement, (c) time delay prompting, and (d) imitating the child’s actions. The result showed that with parent- implemented intervention, all five preschooler’s communication skills improved. Parents have also been taught to implement multicomponent intervention approaches with their child. A multicomponent approach refers to comprehensive interventions designed to impact a variety of target outcomes by incorporating many different strategies. Examples of multicomponent approaches for young children with ASD include KidTalk Tactics Project (Brown & Woods, 2015), the Early Start Denver Model (ESDM; Rogers et al., 2012), pivotal response training (PRT; Schreibman, Kaneko, & Koegel, 1991), Project ImPACT (Ingersoll & Wainer, 2013), and Enhanced Milieu Teaching (EMT; Hancock & Kaiser, 2002). EMT con- sists of three components: (a) environmental arrangement to create opportunities for the social and communicative interactions, (b) responsive interactions between the interventionist (or parent) and the child, and (c) milieu teaching which includes behavioral strategies such as modeling, prompting, and providing natural reinforce- ment (Hemmeter & Kaiser, 1994). These naturalistic teaching strategies lend them- selves to parent implementation as they can be seamlessly embedded into ongoing home activities and routines. Parents have been successfully taught to implement multicomponent interven- tion approaches. Gengoux et al. (2015) found children with ASD whose parents participated in a 12-week group training for PRT had better language and social outcomes 3 months after the intervention than did children with ASD whose parents were not trained in PRT. Kaiser, Hancock, and Nietfeld (2000) taught six parents of preschoolers with ASD to implement EMT first in a clinical setting and then in their homes. In a clinical setting with a trained interventionist, parents were taught each EMT component one at a time until they reached a specified criterion of implemen- tation (e.g., 80% of steps correct). Data on the parents’ implementation of EMT and their child’s communication behaviors were recorded in both the clinical setting and in the families’ home. Results showed that with parent training, all six parents learned to implement EMT in the clinical setting with their child which led to improvements in child communication. Five of the six parents were able to then use EMT in their homes with their child, and again, child communication for these five families improved. Parents reported they were highly satisfied with the parent train- ing and the EMT approach. Dawson and colleagues (2010) conducted a study in which 48 children with ASD between 1 and 3 years of age went through either the parent-implemented ESDM or commonly available community-based interventions over 2 years. In the ESDM intervention,