Series Editor: Nirbhay N. Singh Evidence-Based Practices in Behavioral Health Marjorie H. Charlop Russell Lang Mandy Rispoli Play and Social Skills for Children with Autism Spectrum Disorder Evidence-Based Practices in Behavioral Health Series editor Nirbhay N. Singh, Medical College of Georgia, Augusta University, Augusta, GA, USA More information about this series at http://www.springer.com/series/11863 Marjorie H. Charlop • Russell Lang Mandy Rispoli Play and Social Skills for Children with Autism Spectrum Disorder ISSN 2366-6013 ISSN 2366-6021 (electronic) Evidence-Based Practices in Behavioral Health ISBN 978-3-319-72498-0 ISBN 978-3-319-72500-0 (eBook) https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-72500-0 Library of Congress Control Number: 2017960839 © Springer International Publishing AG 2018 This work is subject to copyright. All rights are reserved by the Publisher, whether the whole or part of the material is concerned, specifically the rights of translation, reprinting, reuse of illustrations, recitation, broadcasting, reproduction on microfilms or in any other physical way, and transmission or information storage and retrieval, electronic adaptation, computer software, or by similar or dissimilar methodology now known or hereafter developed. The use of general descriptive names, registered names, trademarks, service marks, etc. in this publication does not imply, even in the absence of a specific statement, that such names are exempt from the relevant protective laws and regulations and therefore free for general use. The publisher, the authors and the editors are safe to assume that the advice and information in this book are believed to be true and accurate at the date of publication. Neither the publisher nor the authors or the editors give a warranty, express or implied, with respect to the material contained herein or for any errors or omissions that may have been made. The publisher remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations. Printed on acid-free paper This Springer imprint is published by Springer Nature The registered company is Springer International Publishing AG The registered company address is: Gewerbestrasse 11, 6330 Cham, Switzerland Marjorie H. Charlop Psychology Department Claremont McKenna College Claremont, CA, USA Mandy Rispoli Department of Educational Studies Purdue University West Lafayette, IN, USA Russell Lang Texas State University College of Education San Marcos, TX, USA We dedicate, with love, to our children, Kaitlin Charlop Christy, Emerson Lang, and James and Luke Rispoli. To the children with autism spectrum disorder whom we have learned so much from, we hope that this body of work brings joyful engagement in play with friends. Thanks also to Benjamin Thomas, Jenna Gilder, Nataly Lim, Catharine Lory, and Soyeon Kim for their special contributions to this book. Finally, thank you to countless other students for your research over the years at The Claremont Autism Center and Texas State’s Clinic for Autism Research, Evaluation and Support (CARES). You have all contributed so much to this book, our careers, and the lives of many. vii Preface There are precious few advantages to getting old. But one of them is perspective, specifically a perspective that allows one to fully enjoy the sheer beauty of progress. For me, reading this book allowed me