1987). The scientific process, which appropriately began by describing the disorder’s seem- ingly insurmountable deficits, eventually led to the understanding that some forms of intervention can result in meaningful skill acquisition. The scientific process was undeniably indispensable in creating a field of study devoted to the education and treatment of children with ASD. Ultimately, it was research that dispelled the myth of the uneducable child. Today, due to a much more robust research base, we suspect most educators and therapists are fully aware that children with ASD can be taught a large variety of skills, and the labels of “untrainable” and “uneducable” seem markedly ridiculous. In fact, it is so widely understood that teaching makes a difference for children with ASD; there is an abundance of new and purported “improved” treatment options available. Unfortunately, not all of those treatment options have been vetted by the very scientific process responsible for this enlightenment. Specifically, not all treat- ment options are derived from sound research, some have never been researched at all, and, most alarming, other interventions have been carefully researched but were found to be ineffective or dangerously counterproductive (Travers, Ayers, Simpson, & Crutchfield, 2016). In short, the evidence base comprising many decades’ worth of data on the qualities of effective treatment is occasionally ignored, and it is not uncommon for ineffective and/or untested treatments to be disseminated directly to clinicians, in-service and preservice teachers, and families. Although the children receiving these fad, pseudoscientific, and invalidated treatments are certainly capa- ble of making progress on their goals, failure to consider the evidence base when selecting treatment approaches all too often denies them that opportunity. This chapter focuses on the importance of evidence-based practice and discusses issues in the context of interventions designed to teach play and social skills to chil- dren with ASD. The chapter aims to (a) provide a brief historical overview of the evidence-based practice movement beginning in the field of medicine and moving to psychology and education, (b) describe the common approaches to defining and identifying evidence-based practices, (c) identify specific evidence-based practices suitable for teaching play and social skills to children with ASD and note where each of those practices is presented in this text, and (d) discuss the reasons why practitioners and families may select practices that are not evidence-based. Ultimately, this chapter is intended to set the stage for subsequent chapters that focus on a variety evidence-based treatment options that have been repeatedly dem- onstrated to be capable of improving the play and social skills of children with ASD. 2 New Is Not Always Improved: Evidence-Based Practice infiPlay andfiSocial Skills… 19 Brief History of the Evidence-Based Practice Movement There was a time, not very long ago, when comparing potential risks and benefits across various medical treatments was much more difficult. In too many cases, doc- tors had to rely primarily on personal experience, anecdote, and intuition when treating some types of illnesses and injuries. There was more uncertainty when attempting to identify the best course