Child Outcomes The majority of research studies on parent-implemented interventions have focused on improving child social communication skills (Bottema-Beutel, Yoder, Hochman, & Watson, 2014; Igersoll & Gergans, 2007; Shire et al., 2016; Vernon, 2014) and play skills (Besler & Kurt, 2016; Pierucci, 2016). In this section, we highlight some of the research focusing on each of these child outcome areas. Social Communication Joint Attention In recent years, researchers have begun to focus a great deal of work on teaching parents to help their child to develop the foundational skills required for communication. These foundation skills are sometimes referred to pre- cursors (Mundy, Sigman, & Kasari, 1990). One of these precursors to communica- tion is the development of joint attention. Joint attention is the state of shared attention with another individual regarding an object or event in the environment. Joint attention is established through initiating a common focus (e.g., showing or pointing to objects) or responding to others’ initiation of a common focus (e.g., fol- lowing another person’s eye gaze or point) (Kasari, Freeman, & Paparella, 2006; Kasari, Gulsrud, Paparella, Hellemann, & Berry, 2015; Schertz & Odom, 2007). When a child is able to exhibit joint attention, he or she knows how to alternate eye gaze between a person and an object (Kaale, Smith, & Sponheim, 2012), point to objects to engage another individual’s attention, and develop mutually sustained state of engagement with others (Kasari, Gulsrud, Wong, Kwon, & Locke, 2010). Given that joint attention skills are critical for building language and social abilities in later years (Kasari et al., 2006), there has been an increasing amount of research focusing on developing joint attention skills for children with ASD through parent mediated interventions. However, the results have been mixed (Kasari et al., 2015). Here we would like to introduce some parent-implemented early interventions that have worked in very young children with ASD. Kasari et al. (2010) investigated the effect of a play routine intervention with 19 children with ASD aged between 1 and 3 years. The intervention consisted of 24 sessions implemented over 8 weeks, with approximately three sessions per week. The main goal was to encourage prolonged engagement in a play topic. In each ses- sion, the interventionist coached the caregiver and the child as they were engaging in play routines. The caregiver had naturalistic opportunities to practice intervention 8 The Power offlParents: Parent-Implemented Interventions forflYoung Children… 139 strategies such as following the child’s interest in activities, imitating the child’s actions, expanding on the child’s verbal comments, making eye contact, etc. By the end of the intervention, the caregivers could carry out the intervention with high accuracy. More importantly, the children developed better joint attention skills by shifting their focus from objects to both objects and people. In addition, a follow-up measurement at 1 year after the intervention showed that the levels of joint attention continued to increase. JASPER (Joint Attention, Symbolic Play, Engagement, and Regulation) is another treatment approach developed at the University of California in Los Angeles to