text, we considered a large corpus of research studies involving treatments designed to improve the social and play skills of children with ASD. • Any one study, regardless of the rigor of the research procedures and design, will have limitations. It is not possible to be reasonably certain that a treatment is effective based on the findings of a single study. • Different studies have different strengths and weaknesses. For example, an experimental single-case design study has stronger internal validity (i.e., clear evidence of benefit for people who received treatment in the study) but weaker external validity (less certainty that those benefits will be achieved if the treatment is replicated with other people). However, group design studies have stronger external validity but weaker internal validity. • Researchers conduct systematic reviews or meta-analyses (i.e., methods for studying findings across a group of studies) as a way to control for the limitations of any one study. • The evidence base includes the entire body of research involving experi- mental single-case designs, group designs, and systematic or meta-analytic reviews. Box 2.2 Clarification of the Terms Intervention , Treatment , Package and Component What is the difference between an “intervention/treatment component” and a “intervention/treatment package”? • The terms treatment and intervention are used interchangeably to refer to the specific actions taken in an effort to educate, treat, or in some other way ameliorate the symptoms or deficits associated with ASD. • The term intervention component (or treatment component) refers to a single strategy or teaching procedure, for example, providing reinforce- ment for an appropriate behavior. • The term treatment package (or intervention package) refers to a collection of intervention components that are used together as part of a combined approach. • Differential reinforcement is an example of a treatment package because it involves reinforcing the desired behavior/skill and intentionally withhold- ing reinforcement for a challenging behavior (extinction). The package Identifying Evidence-Based Practices for Children with ASD 22 In some cases, an evidence-based practice identified by an agency is a compo- nent of a larger intervention package covered in this text. In other cases, an interven- tion component covered in this text is part of one of the evidence-based practices identified by the group or agency. In both of those situations, the tables state “Component.” For example, modeling and prompting are covered in Chap. 3, and, because these components are often used in functional communication training packages, “Component” is marked in Table 2.1 where the evidence-based practice identified by the agency intersects with the column indicating where in this text that practice is covered. Finally, when the exact treatment package or intervention com- ponent classified as an evidence-based practice by an agency is precisely the same as what is described in a corresponding chapter in this text, “Main Focus” is noted in the table. Tables 2.1, 2.2 and 2.3 are intended to (a) identify the evidence- based treatments and treatment components that have been used to improve social and play skills of children with ASD;