activi- ties, and the concomitant social interactions, need to be targeted for children with ASD and are of prime functional importance. However, they are often left off of IEPs and other therapeutic curricula. Play and social behaviors are functional for a child with ASD. What the literature has shown us about functional behaviors is that they often are associated with other behaviors as well. The scientific literature has shown us that play is associated with better long-term outcomes (Kasari, Gulsrud, Freemans, Paparella, & Hellemann, 2012), increases in joint attention (Basso, Charlop, & Gumaer, 2017; Kasari, Freemans, & Paparella, 2006), and communication (Kasari et al., 2012; Siller & Sigman, 2002). So, play not only has immediate relevance and function for the child with ASD, but it has concomitant gains in other areas of importance for the child. It is no wonder, then, that the majority of NaTS programs have focused on teaching communication and social behaviors (Charlop-Christy, LeBlanc, & Carpenter, 1999). Third, naturalistic teaching strategies include those variables that are facilitators of generalization. These include employing natural environments (home) to treat in; using parents, peers, and siblings to be change agents; and using reinforcers that can be found in the natural environment (cf. Stokes & Baer, 1977). As defined earlier, 4 Keeping It Real: Naturalistic Teaching Strategies (NaTS) forfiPlay andfiSocial Skills… 55 generalization is the occurrence of newly learned behaviors in non-trained settings and/or with untrained persons. Generalization is quite difficult to achieve, but it is probably the most important aspect of treatment. What good is treatment if the child only learns a behavior in the therapy setting? So, we must think about generalization from the very moment we start to interact with the child. The three basic components of naturalistic teaching strategies are detailed below. Step-by-step guides are provided to add motivation enhancers, functional relation- ships, and facilitators of generalization into your treatment of play and social skills. Motivation Motivation is a term that has been defined in a variety of different ways. Many view motivation as something intrinsic, something that comes from within, part of a per- son’s innate personality. However, from a behavioral framework, motivation is con- sidered from an extrinsic point of view, something we can observe and measure. When dealing with motivation in terms of NaTS, it is also implied that motivation would have a positive connotation. So, while we can view motivation as a way to behave in a certain way due to a need to avoid or escape a noxious stimulus, with NaTS we are defining it as a positive phenomenon. For our purposes here, we define motivation as “using stimuli and procedures that encourage or impel the child to learn or perform a particular behavior.” Thus, when we refer to NaTS as including motivating procedures, we are saying that task stimuli, environmental arrange- ments, and consequences are all conducive to making learning as enjoyable. Providing an enjoyable learning experience will then lead to better outcomes. Motivation with a NaTS paradigm means making learning