on the game piece. (d) Lift the child’s hand. If necessary, point to the game piece. As with all prompt fading procedures, start at the point where the child requires assistance. For example, if the child can spin the spinner unassisted, or knows how to put the puzzle piece in, skip steps a. and b. and start at step c. 5. If the child takes his turn, but does not indicate to you that it is your turn, prompt his response using the following prompt fading procedure: (a) Model the phrase. For example, say, “Go Jose.” (b) Provide a partial model of the phrase (e.g., “Go” or “Gah”). (c) Say, “Whose turn is it?” (d) Provide a time delay prompt after the child has completed his turn 3 All Children Can Play: Prompting andfiModeling Procedures tofiTeach Play… 47 Group Play Group games play an important role in the daily social interactions of children. Children participate in group games during P.E. and class and at recess. Most group games, such as baseball, soccer, and basketball, require the child to use multiple complex skills, including social interaction skills, attention to the environment, and knowledge of the rules of the game. These types of games might initially appear to be overwhelming for a child with ASD. However, children with ASD can and do learn to play in group settings and enjoy group games. Recommended games to teach include baseball or tee-ball (depending on age and ability), soccer/kickball, and basketball. Games can be easily modified to match the child’s level and motor- coordination skills. Box 3.4 lists skills for each of the group games. These are the skills to model, prompt, and reinforce during play. The bottom half of Box 3.4 also provides some simple rules of thumb for teaching group game play. Box 3.4 Suggested Target Behaviors for Group Games Game Target behaviors (steps) Baseball/tee-ball Hold bat correctly Stand at plate Watch pitcher/ball Swing bat Drop bat Run to base Wait at base Watch next batter Run bases after ball is hit Run to home plate High five at home plate Soccer/kick Use only feet to maneuver ball Kick ball to another player Chase missed balls Stop ball from another player Maneuver ball past other players Kick ball toward goal 6. If you are playing a board game where one of you “wins,” have the child indicate who won. For example, if the child wins, he should say, “I win!,” whereas if you win, he should say, “You win!” with equal enthusiasm. It is important not only to teach play skills, but to teach good sportsmanship as well! 7. Always provide reinforcement for good playing Group Play 48 Prompts for group game play may be physical (manual) or verbal. For example, a manual prompt to support playing tee-ball might include holding the child’s hands over the bat and guiding him through hitting a ball off a tee. Spoken reminders for specific behaviors (e.g., “Look at the ball”) are forms of verbal prompts that