parents varies across the literature. Most training durations are measured with respect to the number of meetings between the profes- sional and the parent. Barton and Fettig (2013) reviewed the research on parent training across disabilities and found most studies conducted between one and four training sessions followed by frequent observations or coaching sessions. It is likely that parents may require mores training on comprehensive or complex interventions than on focused interventions. For example, Hardan et al. (2015) trained parents over 12 weeks to implement a comprehensive intervention called pivotal response training, while Tellegen and Sanders (2012) implemented four brief training ses- sions (i.e., 15–30 min) with each parent to address one or two specific problems such as noncompliance and aggression. Training Procedures Parent training generally consists of an initial training session(s) to provide parents with an overview and rationale of the procedures followed by ongoing observation, coaching, and feedback sessions. For the initial training, parents are often provided with written and verbal directions, modeling, either live or from videos, practice, self-reflection, and performance feedback (Barton & Fettig, 2013). Written materi- als can include a training manual for complex interventions or a simple one-page handout with reminders and tips for implementing the intervention. After going over the written materials, the professional provides a model demonstration of the intervention. In some cases, the professional may role-play the procedures. In other cases, the professional may show the parent a video recording of the intervention. Research studies have shown that parents also need an opportunity to practice implementing the intervention. This practice could be in a role-play fashion with the professional or with the child with ASD. In either case, the parent should be pro- vided with an opportunity to reflect on his/her implementation and to obtain feed- back from the professional. Following the initial training session(s), parents should be provided with ongo- ing feedback and support (e.g., Rivard et al., 2017). This support is often achieved through coaching. Coaching typically involves setting performance goals, building action plans to help the parent meet the goal(s), creating opportunities for the parent to practice the intervention, observing the parent implementing the intervention, and providing opportunities for coach feedback and parent self-reflection on prog- ress toward the goal based on those observations. Coaching usually takes place after the parent implements the intervention (Wainer, Pickard, & Ingersoll, 2017) or, in some cases, while the parent implements the intervention (Lequia, Machalicek, & Lyons, 2013). This is often called in vivo coaching. When in vivo coaching is pro- vided during the session, the professional may interrupt the parent if there is an error 8 The Power offlParents: Parent-Implemented Interventions forflYoung Children… 137 in implementation, may praise the parent when a step is implemented correctly, or may prompt the parent when it is time to implement a specific step. Lane et al. (2016) combined initial parent training with two types of coaching: in vivo coach- ing and coaching following the observations. During the 4-min in vivo parent coach- ing sessions,