& Brierley, 1977) and a reduced tendency to observe and imitate the play of other children (Rogers, Young, Cook, Giolzetti, & Ozonoff, 2008). Although delayed or abnormal play development is not emphasized to the same extent in ASD diagnostic criteria as the presence of social skill abnor- malities, the potential adverse impact of play deficits on development is considerable. Despite the pervasive nature of ASD’s symptoms, it is important to note that symptom severity varies a great deal across individuals. For example, some children with ASD reach spoken language milestones at the same age as children of typical development (e.g., first words around 12 months and complete sentences at 3 years), but others do not acquire spoken language at all. Heterogeneity in the ASD popula- tion is also evident in domains not directly related to the diagnostic criteria. For example, some children with ASD have an intellectual disability, while others dem- onstrate average and even far above average intellectual functioning. Similarly, challenging behavior (e.g., self-injury) and comorbid mental illness (e.g., anxiety disorder) range from severe to absent in children with ASD. All of these factors certainly impact a child’s social and play behavior and illustrate the diversity of the ASD population. Table 1.4 provides a brief list of the common social and play defi- cits reported in ASD but should be considered in light of this diversity. The severity of ASD symptomology is categorized according to the level of sup- port the child requires for daily functioning. The Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (APA, 2013) describes three support levels ranging from “requiring support” to “requiring very substantial support.” In terms of social skills, children that require very substantial support may present with a complete absence Table 1.4 Social and play characteristics associated with autism spectrum disorder Characteristics of ASD related to social and play skills Deficits in social-emotional reciprocity Difficulty with back-and-forth conversation Failure to initiate or respond to social interactions Abnormalities in eye contact, use of gestures, and body language Difficulty interpreting the meaning of other people’s gestures and body language Unusual facial expressions Difficulty fostering and sustaining friendships Failure to adjust behavior based on social contexts Difficulties engaging in imaginative play Using toys to engage in stereotyped or repetitive behaviors that do not resemble typical play behaviors Inflexible adherence to routines, insistence on sameness Interests in items or activities that are too intense and/or too limited 1 More Than Just Fun andfiGames: De nition, Development, andfiIntervention… 11 of speech, no demonstrated ability to initiate or respond to social interactions, and intense rituals and repetitive forms of behavior that, when interrupted or redirected by caregivers, cause notable distress and challenging behavior (e.g., tantrums and aggression). On the other end of the continuum, children may initiate or respond to social situations in unusual or awkward ways and fixate on a specific toy or play routine. Although they may develop speech and some play and social skills, chil- dren on this end of autism spectrum will still require support