tion models which have involved PMI include the LEAP model (Strain & Hoyson, 2000) and pivotal response training (Koegel et al., 2012). One comprehensive intervention model which involves PMI is the LEAP (Learning Experiences and Alternative Program for Preschoolers and their Parents) program (Strain, Kohler, & Goldstein, 1996). Within the LEAP model, preschool- aged children with ASD are taught in an inclusive program with typically develop- ing peers. In the LEAP model, peers are taught to model appropriate social behaviors, to take turns with children with ASD, to encourage and provide social reinforce- ment to children with ASD, and to persist in attempts to engage and respond to children with ASD in their classroom (Kohler & Strain, 1999). Results of a recent randomized control trial study (Strain & Bovey, 2011) found significant differences in cognitive, social, communication skills among children in the LEAP program versus children in the control group. Positive social outcomes of this comprehensive intervention model included increased social participation, ability to generalize learned behaviors across settings and time periods, and greater frequency of social interactions. In summary, PMI is an effective model for promoting positive social interaction, communication, and play behavior between young children with ASD and typically developing peers. Though PMI involves peers as the primary intervention agent, teachers and other adults are critically involved in planning the PMI intervention, in training and coaching peers, and in monitoring the effectiveness of the intervention. 7 Want tofiPlay? Peer-Mediated Intervention forfiYoung Children withfiAutism… 117 Box 7.1 Planning for Peer-Mediated Intervention Questions to ask during PMI planning 1. What skills will be targeted using PMI? 2. Where and when will PMI take place? 3. How will peers be selected? 4. How will peers be trained? 5. How will peers be provided feedback? 6. How will PMI be evaluated? How to Implement Peer-Mediated Interventions Although peers are the interventionists in PMI, adults play a critical role in this intervention as well. The adult’s role is generally “behind the scenes” as they plan, implement, and evaluate PMI. That is, the adult identifies peers who would be effec- tive interventionists, designs and implements lessons to teach the peers how to implement PMI, coaches and provides feedback to the peers during PMI, and moni- tors the focus child’s progress toward the target outcomes. Below we outline inter- ventionist behaviors for planning, implementing, and evaluating PMI. Planning Interventionists are, by definition, interested in changing behaviors and may be inclined to jump right in to PMI. However, before implementing PMI, the interven- tionist must take time to carefully plan the design and the implementation of PMI. Before implementing PMI, the adult interventionist should address the six questions in Box 7.1 What Skills Will Be Targeted Using PMI? Though PMI has been shown to improve a variety of target behaviors, the target behaviors with the most research support are social interaction and play skills. When selecting a target behavior, be sure the new behavior is developmentally appropriate and socially important for the child and the child’s