interaction with another person; for example, receiving praise and physical affection. · Non-social reinforcers (sometimes referred to as “automatic”) involve consequences that are not dependent on other people. For example, a child who continues to spin a top because they enjoy the visual stimulation of watching the top spin may be experiencing automatic reinforcement. · Because reinforcement increases the occurrence of behaviors, it is an essential component of many interventions designed to teach social and play skills. · Subsequent chapters will provide additional details on the use of reinforcement within specific intervention approaches. Fig. 1.1 Notes on reinforcement 1 More Than Just Fun andfiGames: De nition, Development, andfiIntervention… 3 play and social skills can be taught, this initial chapter first provides an overview of the sequence, and time frame-specific play and social skills are observed in typical developing children. Knowledge of typical play and social development is impor- tant because play and social interventions for children with ASD tend to be more effective when the target behavior (i.e., the specific skill being taught) is develop- mentally appropriate for the child (Lifter, Ellis, Cannon, & Anderson, 2005). Next, specific deficits and other abnormalities associated with the social and play skills of children with ASD are identified, defined, and discussed. Emphasis is placed on the play and social skills most often targeted in intervention research (Matson & Wilkins, 2007). Finally, before subsequent chapters discuss more specialized inter- ventions, this chapter concludes with two simple recommendations appropriate for parents and early childcare professionals who aim to support the development of social and play skills in children with or without ASD. Typical Social and Play Development Child development typically proceeds in a predictable sequence with specific skills and behaviors observed at roughly the same time of life across children. To illustrate a typical developmental sequence, consider motor skill development as an example. Specifically, children first learn to lift their head and then to use their arms to push up from the ground. Next, they learn to crawl, and crawling is typically replaced by walking all before 24 months of age. This sequence and the approximate time of life specific motor skills emerge are consistent across a large majority of typical devel- oping children. In a manner comparable to motor skill development, children’s play and social repertoires also tend to develop in a predictable sequence with key social and play behaviors emerging around the same age across children. Table 1.1 pro- vides an overview of the developmental milestones related to play and social skills that are typically reached in the first 5 years of life. Typical Play Skill Development Because researchers across multiple fields have addressed a variety of research questions related to play using dissimilar research methods, numerous definitions and categorical systems (taxonomies) of play have been developed. Lifter et al. (2011) conducted a comprehensive review of the various taxonomical approaches to classifying and defining play behaviors and noted that most conceptualizations emphasize either (a) the appearance (topography) of the play behavior—that which can