flap. Step 3: Push down second button to the left. Step 4: Push down to close pop-up flap. Step 5: Push down middle button. Step 6: Push down to close pop-up flap. Step 7: Push down second button to the right. Step 8: Push down to close pop-up flap. Step 9: Push down last button on the right. Step 10: Push down to close pop-up flap. Box 5.4 Task Analysis of a Car Wash Toy Play Task analysis of car wash toy play Preparation: Place car wash set on the table. Actor or participant says, “Let’s play carwash.” Step 1: Car is placed at the beginning of the driveway. Step 2: Car goes up driveway. How to Do Video Modeling 86 Script Here is where the task analysis becomes very helpful. Your script will be a detailed combination of your task analysis, directions for the actors, and directions for the camera. Additionally, notes regarding scene display will also be in the script. Below is an example of a script for the car wash task analysis; note the differences (Box 5.5). Models Adults such as teachers, parents, therapists, college students, etc. are highly sug- gested as models in your video modeling tape. Adults are easier to train and are able to remember scripts better than most children. They require less rehearsing and make filming the video more time-efficient. Since research has been inconclusive in terms of suggesting that any specific type of model is really superior, we Box 5.5 Script for Car Wash Toy Play Script: car wash Car wash toy set is placed on the table for filming. Camera zooms in on the toy. Actor: Places hand on car (without obscuring the car) and while looking into camera says in a slow, clear voice, “Let’s play car wash.” Camera: Zooms in on actor’s hands and car and subsequently follows the car. Actor: Moves car slowly to starting point of game set. Actor: With left hand, guides car through game set. First goes up ramp, then turns right onto tracks, slides car through wash, pushes blue button with the right hand to wet car, takes car to drying section of game set, picks up nozzle, pretend dries car, places car on track, manually drives car out of game set. Camera: Stop filming once car is off of game set. Step 3: Car is placed on car wash tracks. Car goes through “the wash.” 1. Red button is pushed and car is squirted with water. 2. Car moves to nozzle dryer. 3. Nozzle is picked up and “dries” car. 4. Car drives down ramp. Step 4: Car is put into a parking spot. 5 Lights, Camera, Action! Teaching Play and Social Skills to Children with Autism… 87 recommend that models are selected based on the ease necessary to train the mod- els. However, it is also important to take into account the specific child you are creating the video for, the specific behavior, and the context it is desired to occur. For