teacher’s face. Model 1: Model of teacher is looking at child and smiling. Camera: Camera zooms over to model of child looking at teacher. Model 2: Child’s model says, “Hi!” in a loud, enthusiastic voice. Camera: Camera pulls back to focus on both of the models heads and stops. Model 1: Teacher model says “Hi! Welcome to school today!” How to Do Video Modeling 90 and games on it, which defeats the point of video modeling. We find using a com- puter screen or laptop interesting enough for the children, and many of our partici- pants in our more recent video modeling research can use the mouse to click on the videos and then sit still and enjoy watching the videos of the target behaviors. Prior to showing the video, you should say, “We are going to watch a movie. Please pay attention to the screen.” Praise him/her for paying attention. When not paying attention, you should remind the child to pay attention and can lightly tap the screen to show where the child needs to look. After completely viewing the film twice (Charlop & Milstein, 1989), take the child to the setting/context where the target behavior needs to be demonstrated, give the child access to the materials pres- ent in the film, and say, “Do what you saw in the video, or now it is your turn.” The child then has the opportunity to engage in the modeled behavior. If the child does the behavior, give him/her an opportunity to do it again, in other settings, and do it for follow-up probes and generalization probes. This doesn’t have to be right away; but it is good for the child to be able to engage in the learned behavior soon after. If the child does not reach your criterion of learning the behavior you have set, present the video again at a later time (next day, week) only once (Charlop & Milstein, 1989) and assess for learning by having the child do what he/she saw in the video. We recommend showing the video twice in a row, and then upon subse- quent viewings, just play the video once. Continue this cycle of viewing the video once and test for learning until the child has learned the behavior. We decided to do this so the child would have some initial repetition, but not become bored by con- tinually repeated presentations. We have been doing it this way since our first study (Charlop & Milstein, 1989), and the majority of our research seems to be effective, so we continue to use this approach. However, it is important to note that other researchers do not follow this rhythm and show success. Conclusion You should now know how to create and do your own video modeling intervention with positive effects! Remember that video modeling generally works fairly quickly if your designated child has met the pre-assessment criteria. If the child is having difficulty learning, go back over this chapter and make sure you have