mandated in several federal laws related to public education (e.g., Individuals with Disabilities Education Act), there is still considerable debate as to how those practices should be identified (Wood, 2017). Unfortunately, perhaps due to the wider range of research methodologies and the variety of different underlying philosophies that characterize the fields of education and psychology compared to medicine, the progress of the evidence-based practice movement has been less efficient in these two fields. For example, some have pre- sented a postmodernist argument suggesting that psychology, education, and other purported social sciences will never (or should never) attempt to achieve the level of certainty reached in the field of medicine (Gergen, 2001; Vyse, 2005). Whatever the reason, the evidence-based practice movement took longer to initiate in these fields and remains less ubiquitous than what is enjoyed in the field of medicine. There is currently no one agreed-upon way to define or identify evidence-based practice. Therefore, for this text, we have selected three different evidence-based practice reviews aimed specifically at identifying effective treatments for children with ASD. These three evidence-based practice reviews are described with a focus on social and play skill interventions in the next section. Identifying Evidence-Based Practices for Children with ASD Given the wide range of research designs and differences in the underlying philoso- phies that drive the various natural sciences (e.g., ABA and medicine) and social sci- ences (e.g., special education) involved in the education and treatment of children with ASD, it is understandable that there is no single agreed-upon approach to determining what practices are (or are not) “evidence-based” or for identifying a “best practice” for a given client’s individualized treatment goals. Three reputable groups have suggested specific criteria that should be met for a practice to be classified as evidence-based: (a) the National Professional Development Center on Autism Spectrum Disorders, (b) the National Autism Center’s National Standards Project (2009), and (c) the Autism Evidence-Based Practice Review Group (Wong et al., 2013). Using various proce- dures, all three of these groups have reviewed the research base. The sections of this chapter that follow will describe each of these groups’ criteria for classifying a treat- ment as an evidence-based practice. Next, the evidence-based practices that could be used to teach social or play skills to children with ASD are listed in Tables 2.1, 2.2, and 2.3. These tables also highlight where each particular practice is discussed in this text. However, before we proceed, it is necessary to understand the terms “intervention,” “treatment,” “treatment component,” and “treatment package” to interpret these tables properly. Box 2.1 provides definitions and a brief discussion of these terms (Box 2.2). 2 New Is Not Always Improved: Evidence-Based Practice infiPlay andfiSocial Skills… 21 Box 2.1 What Is the Evidence Base? What exactly does “evidence base” or “research base” refer to? • The terms evidence base and research base can usually be used interchangeably. • Both terms refer to collected or aggregate research findings across pub- lished studies. For example, in the writing of this