By old-fashioned standards (with inherent problems), her IQ is not in the normal range (between 85 and 110), and she is not in a regular education class 100% of the time. It is difficult to predict whether either of these two will happen; we don’t practice crystal ball prediction, and we are behaviorists, not psychics. But Amy plays nicely with her sister and her cousins and is invited to play dates and birthday parties from friends at school. She loves going on camping trips with her large extended family, is on a soccer team, and will soon join the Brownies. Her favorite place to go is Disneyland—just like so many other little children. The pro- cedures for Amy’s play and social skills are summarized in Box 9.1. Box 9.1 Amy’s Play and Social Skills Program included the following procedures Amy’s play and social skills program included the following procedures: 1. Natural Language Paradigm (NLP) from Chap. 4 for speech and play 2. Reinforcement assessment with prompting, modeling, and reinforcement from Chap. 3 for functional toy play 3. General naturalistic teaching procedures from Chap. 3 for cooperative peer play 4. Multiple incidental teaching procedures (MITS) from Chap. 3 for verbal interactions with adults and peers (initiations, greetings, requests to go potty) 5. Peer modeling from Chap. 8 for athletic/outdoor activities 6. Social skills group–a combination of treatment procedures from peer mod- eling, teacher (modeling and naturalistic teaching strategies in Chaps. 3, 4, and 8) Treatment with Play and Social Skills 162 Conclusion Play and social skills have implications for much more far reaching consequences of positive gain. In this chapter, we presented play and social skills as behavioral cusps that continue to perpetuate their value by opening the world for to children with ASD and lead to other behavioral cusps that continue to widen the reinforce- ment communities for the children. Three brief case studies are provided for illus- trative purposes. Toward this end, play and social skills are indeed of utmost importance when crafting the most positive prognosis a child can have. References Baron-Cohen, S., Leslie, A. M., & Frith, U. (1985). Does the autistic child have a “theory of mind”? Cognition , 21 (1), 37–46. Basso, T., Charlop, M. H., & Gumaer, C. (2017). Using a play intervention to increase joint atten- tion for School-aged, Non-verbal Children with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) . Unpublished manuscript. Claremont, CA: Claremont McKenna College. Bosch, S., & Fuqua, R. W. (2001). Behavioral cusps: A model for selecting target behaviors. Journal of Applied Behavior Analysis , 34 (1), 123. Bijou, S. W., & Baer, D. M. (1961). The nature of developmental theory. In Child development: A systematic and empirical theory (Vol. 1). East Norwalk, CT: Appleton-Century-Crofts. Charlop-Christy, M. H., & Daneshvar, S. (2003). Using video modeling to teach perspective taking to children with autism. Journal of Positive Behavior Interventions , 5 (1), 12–21. Chen, P. Y., & Schwartz, I. S. (2012). Bullying and victimization experiences of students with autism spectrum disorders in elementary schools.