issues related to food are to blame. Brightly colored food may lead to sensory overload causing specific foods like peppers to be avoided altogether. 90 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. Food aversions are challenging for parents with an autistic child. Although your child may be extremely picky about his/her food choices, there are things you can do to help ex- pose your child to new foods to increase food selection. 5 Tips for introducing new food 1. Don’t pressure Don’t try and convince your child to “clear their plate.” This will only lead to further food aver- sions. Instead, each time a new food item is in- troduced, simply leave it on the plate and allow your child to decide to eat it or not. 2. Don’t intermix foods Foods that are intermixed may lead to sensory overload. That sensory over- load will only result in food aversions and mealtime tantrums. To avoid this, keep each food item separate. For in- stance, if you have pasta with broccoli, cheese, and chicken, separate each ingredient. Don’t try and ‘hide’ food ingredients in hopes your child won’t notice. 91 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. 3. Combine new and old favorites Always combine a new food item with one of your child’s favorite foods. If you would like to introduce green beans, pair it with his/her favorite like chicken nuggets. This will give your child the choice to eat the green beans or not while ensuring he/she eat something during mealtime. 4. Eat the same new food Children with autism learn best through vi- sualization. Show your child the new food item is tasty by eating it yourself. Over time, your child will see the new food item being eaten over and over and may start eating it themselves. 5. Allow them to explore Instead of keeping your child from playing with his/her food, encourage it! For children with sensory issues, play is key for introducing new foods. Allow your child to taste, smell, and feel the food to get use to it. 92 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. Autism And Food Aversions: 5 Tips For Introducing New Food READ MORE Liz Talton 93 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. Resources, Books and Magazines on Autism for Parents Autism Parenting Magazine The prime resource for parents of kids with autism, Autism Parenting Magazine , recently included us in their Helpful Links section! To be endorsed by this noted authority on how to survive and thrive as