action 47 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. These types of neurons are thought to be linked to social be- haviors, especially empathy and imitation, possibly explain- ing social cognition in humans. To take advantage of mirror neurons video modeling for social skills is used for children with autism. Speech Blubs takes video modeling a step fur- ther by having children speak or model behaviors and skills. All your child has to do for video modeling is watch Speech Blubs videos and copy the word or action demonstrated by other children. The Speech Blubs app and video modeling will give your child the following benefits: 1. Confidence to perform copied tasks and speech in daily life 2. Learn faster by seeing other children perform the behaviors 3. Increase memory of learned behaviors through fun activities and games All of the content, that includes voice-controlled exercises, videos, mini-games, and more is based on suggestions and feedback provided by 100s of kids, parents, teachers, and speech therapists. Try It now 48 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. Teaching Kids with Video Modeling READ MORE Robert McKenzie 49 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. Autism and Speech One speech disorder affecting 65% of children with autism is speech apraxia. Although there are many forms of aprax- ia, speech apraxia directly affects the tongue, lips, mouth, and jaw in producing clear speech sounds. On top of words sounding unclear, the same word may sound differently each time it’s spoken leading to inconsistent speech sounds. If a child shows signs of a communication disorder, it can be hard to distinguish whether the speech issue is due to aprax- ia or autism. So, an evaluation from a speech-language pa- thologist should be conducted. Some areas a speech-language pathologist will examine for diagnosing speech apraxia are: • Errors with consonants and vowels – A child may say the same word different each time. • Problems moving from sound to sound or syllable to syllable – This results in long pauses between words and troubles repeating a string of words. • Unusual emphasis on certain parts of speech – A child may emphasize all the syllables of a word or sen- tence resulting in a “flat or robotic” tone of speech. 50 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. Other symptoms of apraxia of speech used for diagnosis include: • Minimal babbling as a baby • Troubles forming and saying long words • Repeated attempts to pronounce a word • Excessive use of nonverbal communication