ASD at 9, 18, and 24 or 30 months by a pediatrician, signs of ASD can still be missed. Some children with a higher risk of developmen- tal disorders may need to attend additional appointments for further screening. The diagnosis process for ASD is a three-step process. Step 1: Screening Before a child is diagnosed, he or she must undergo an initial screening. This process takes roughly 15 minutes and in- volves a discussion and observation of a child’s acquired and delayed milestones and skills. For a child, this initial screen- ing is stress-free. All a child has to do is play. The doctor will observe and engage with the child in play to see how the child speaks, learns, and behaves. 20 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. Step 2: Developmental Pediatrician If the doctor from the initial screening feels further evalu- ations need to be done, the doctor will refer the child to a developmental pediatrician, or a doctor specializing in child- hood development. They can identify a multitude of behav- ioral and developmental disorders in children. Developmental pediatricians are also able to help: • Advocate for school planning and services needed • Prescribe medications • Initiate medical evaluations • Provide long-term monitoring for a child’s devel- opment in educational programs and behavior management 21 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. Step 3: Full Comprehensive Evaluation After a child is seen by a developmental pediatrician, a full comprehensive evaluation is conducted. This type of evalua- tion is a more thorough process involving a child neurologist, a speech and language pathologist, and a child psycholo- gist. All these professionals combined will help determine if a child has ASD. In order to determine if a child displays signs of ASD, four tests are used: 1. Autism Diagnosis Interview – Assesses a child or adult in three main areas of behavior (social interac- tion, communication/language, and restricted and repetitive interests and behaviors. 22 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. 2. Autism Diagnostic Observation Schedule – Exam- ines social interaction, play, communication, and how imaginative a child is with materials. 3. Childhood Autism Rating Scale (CARS) – Only used for children over the age of two years old and takes an in-depth look into behavior, abilities, and the charac- teristics of a child. 4. Gilliam Autism Rating Scale – Suitable for diagnosis in children over three years old and tells parents, teach- ers, and clinicians the severity of the disorder. How Is Autism Spectrum Disorder Diagnosed? READ MORE Stacie Bennett 23 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a