crease in the odds of having a child with autism. Researchers suspect that men who have children when they are over 40 years old may carry ASD traits that lead to delays in romantic partnerships and having children. Other studies found different results that could debunk this theory. While being born to older parents cannot be elimi- nated as a cause of ASD, it is still considered a theory with no concrete research to support it. 5. Low Birth Weight Low birth weight is anything below 5.5 pounds. When a child is born with low weight and/or prematurely, they may be missing proper fetal growth to help them develop. The Center for Disease Control found children born less than 5.5 pounds had a 2.3-fold risk of autism. The same study also found girls born underweight had a 3-fold greater risk of autism. ! ! ! 27 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. 6. Environmental Toxin Exposure Heavy metals and environmental toxins are thought to be one of the contributing factors for causing ASD. But this is simply a theory. As of today, there is no significant research to back up the theory. The Children’s Environmental Health Center lists 10 common toxins and chemicals suspected of causing ASD. So, preg- nant women should limit their exposure to the following 10 environmental toxins: 1. Perfluorinated compounds 2. Endocrine disruptors 3. Methylmercury 4. Lead 5. Organophosphate pesticides 6. PCB’s 7. Organochlorine pesticides 8. Brominated flame retardants 9. Lead 10. Automotive exhaust 28 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. 7. Viral Infections According to research from the American Society for Mi- crobiology, pregnant women with active infections doubled their risk of having a child with ASD. More specifically, cer- tain viral infections have been found by research to be linked to the development of ASD. These six viral infections at the time of pregnancy double a woman’s chance of having a child with ASD: • Cytomegalovirus • Measles • Epstein-Barr Virus • Rubella • Human Herpes Virus 6 • Herpes Simplex Virus 1 and 2 Science is pointing to a mix of biology and environmental factors in combination that contribute to the development of autism. Not just one single factor. With increased research into the causes, it’s about finding a specific or “right” com- bination of different factors that directly influences autism development. 29 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. ASD and Heredity Since we know the role of genetics can play a part in the cause of autism debate, it’s important to discuss some com- mon characteristics of heredity and an autism diagnosis. • Those with a family member with