on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. 2. Shorten your speech If your child struggles with following directions, it could be because of a short attention span and your directions are too long. Try focusing on “core words,” shortening phrases, and using simpler words. This will lessen confusion for your child. Example: “Don’t stand on the chair!” Shorten this phrase to: “Sit please.” 3. Imitate behavior Play with your child by copy sounds or actions he/she does. Imitation is a vital part of development and research sus- pects it can predict language outcomes. The benefits of imitation include sharing emotions, understanding turn-tak- ing, increasing attention, and helping a child take an interest in others socially. Speech Blubs encourages children aged 1-6 to generate new sounds using facial and speech recognition technology. Activities inspire imitation of the kid “experts” in the app. So, kids teach kids. 63 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. 4. Use visual tools Many children with nonverbal autism require visual aids to help further understanding and communicate wants and needs. There are many apps like Speech Blubs that will help with speech development through imitation. A picture ex- change communication system (PECS) is also essential for expressing needs and wants for a nonverbal child. 5. Encourage play and social interaction Studies show children learn language best through play- based activities. Try singing songs, turn-taking activities, and gentle rough-housing. The most important part of play- based activities is being down at eye level with your child. Start Your Free Trial 64 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. 6. Leave “space” for your child to talk Sometimes parents are too quick to answer for their child or they immediately ask a follow-up question. This may not leave enough “space” for your child to respond. Even if a nonverbal child responds with a gesture, it’s still communi- cation. Over time, 15-20 seconds of space in between your questions can lead to an answer from your child. 7. Follow your child’s interests It’s best to follow your child’s interests and focused attention on whatever he/she is doing. If your child is dumping out Legos on the floor, say “Dump Lego” and join in on the fun. This will help identify the action and increase language with short phrases and “core words.” TIP 2: Fill out the in-depth questionnaire. Gain insight on which areas your child could improve! 100k+ kids are screened every month! This might give you the first solid information about your child’s communication skills. 65 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and