Like any visual aid tool, the overall goal of PECS is the development of verbal speech. Some children progress through all six phases of the system and acquire verbal language. Other children continue to use this visual aid for communicating simple needs and wants. Over one million parents from over 50 countries already trust us with their child’s development and have downloaded Speech Blubs. 70 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. For the PECS system to work correctly a child needs to be an “intentional” communicator. This means he/she displays a need to communicate needs. A child who is an “intentional” communicator may lead an adult by the hand to something he/she wants. Here’s how the 6 phases of PECS work: Phase 1: Learn how to communicate This phase helps a child communicate his/her needs through pictures by using motivating factors like a favorite toy. For example: If your child loves trains, use a picture of a toy train to motivate him/her to exchange the picture for a train. Phase 2: Learn persistence and picture distancing Phase one builds upon phase two. A child will exchange pictures for a need, but picture distancing is also included. Picture distancing involves a child having to retrieve a card from far away to fulfill a need or want. Phase 3: Making choices This phase involves making choices. Two pictures are intro- duced, and a child needs to point or hand the card he/she chooses. This works best with motivating factors. 71 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. Phase 4: Express feelings and needs This phase combines pictures and words to make short sen- tences. A child must combine “I want,” “I need,” or “I feel” cards with a picture of the desired object or feeling. Some children will only reach phase four in the PECS system. Phase 5: Answering a question Phase 5 builds upon phase 4 by using cards to answer ques- tions. A child will combine a sentence card with a picture card to give the answer. Phase 6: Comment on a question Phase 6 involves elaborating upon phase 5 by commenting on questions. 72 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. How to Customize PECS for Your Child Every child is different. Therefore, a PECS needs to be cus- tomized to meet your child’s unique needs, wants, likes, and dislikes. To customize PECS, you can either purchase pre- made picture cards or make your own. If you’re making your own, keep the following tips in mind! The more you follow your child’s interests the more opportunities you’re creating for speech development in your child. 73 For more resources