parents of kids on the Autism Spec- trum is an honor, indeed. For even more information about where to find resources for dealing with this challenging dis- order, also see Autism Resources for Parents – The Ultimate New Guide. FREE professional PECS cards and images Professional, printable and customizable PECS cards. 94 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. National Autism Resources Find resources for sensory items and classroom. Autism Speaks Leading authority on all information related to autism. Conclusion Autism Spectrum Disorder is a complicated diagnosis. There’s no specific cause to its existence and each child dis- plays very different symptoms and severities. This makes it challenging for parenting a child with autism. Children with autism need extra time to develop at their own rate with the help of doctors, therapy, tools, and a loving and patient parent like yourself! If you believe your child may have autism, an early diagnosis is key. The earlier the signs and symptoms of autism are recognized and diagnosed, the sooner your child will receive the necessary therapy to flour- ish and reach his/her full potential! 95 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. Get your answer from a Speech Therapist. If you want to get a personal answer from our speech therapist, write to ask-a-therapist@speechblubs.com! Start Your Free Trial Boost your child’s ability to make sounds, then words, and then full sentences. 96 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. Thank You! Thanks again for your interest in this e-book, and we hope you’ll download our app and give it a try. You get a 7-day free trial when you sign up. Give it a test drive!