40 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. Floortime Play Therapy Another form of therapy utilized by occupational and speech therapists is floortime play therapy. This type of therapy fo- cuses on building into a child’s strengths by getting to their level of play. Instead of focusing on guiding a child through an activity, the child is the one leading all aspects of play. Floortime play therapy is built upon six milestones: 1. Self-regulation and interest in the world around them 2. Emotional thinking 3. Emotional ideas 4. Back-and-forth communication 5. Complex communication 6. Intimacy and relationship engagement To meet these milestones, a therapist or parent interacts with the child by following what the child is doing in a calm environment. If a child is playing with cars on the floor, a therapist or parent will sit on the floor and play with the cars. These play sessions normally last anywhere from two to five hours a day. 41 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. Floortime Play Therapy for Autism Kids READ MORE Stacie Bennett Over time, the interactions between the therapist and child become more complex. For instance, as a child plays with a toy car, toy planes are introduced with added language to create a game. Floortime play encourages your child to re- spond to questions and interact with the therapist. In 2011, independent researchers in Thailand and Canada discovered floortime play therapy was “significantly im- proving emotional development and reducing autism’s core symptoms.” Download now 42 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. IEP Goals for Autism Since the bulk of your child’s therapy will come from speech therapy, you may be curious about the goals of speech and language skills for a child on the autism spectrum. These same goals are not only for speech therapy but for your child’s IEP (Individualized Education Program). The follow- ing goals for IEP’s are only examples. Every child with au- tism requires different needs, therefore your child’s IEP goals will be specific to him/her. Joint Attention Joint attention refers to a child’s ability to focus on multi- ple things at once. This is essential when your child begins school. Your child needs to be able to focus on multiple tasks at once. While many children with autism struggle with joint attention, your child’s IEP can focus on specific areas of joint attention. Speech Blubs constantly updates its activities in 25 themed sections. We work hard to provide screen time that won’t annoy or worry you. 43 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available