While a “natural setting” is used for changing behaviors like meltdowns and tantrums, it’s also used for reinforcing or teaching imaginative skills or empathy through reward. This therapy is great for addressing challenging behavior but is an intensive therapy often requiring 20-40 hours per week. 37 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. 2. Relationship Development Intervention (RDI) This therapy focuses on critical thinking, communication skills, and social interactions with the people closest to the child. Instead of the therapy focusing solely on the child, RDI includes the involvement of those closest to a child (par- ents and teachers). Parent involvement is key with this therapy! You become your child’s therapist. Although it’s a new therapy, RDI yields promising results. To see success in your child with RDI, you need to be in regular contact with a program consultant and receive extensive therapy information that includes watching instructional videos and conferences. 38 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. Relationship Development Intervention has six objections: 1. Emotional Referencing: Learning from the emotional experiences of others 2. Social Coordination: Observing and controlling be- havior to be involved in social situations 3. Declarative language: 3.The use of non-verbal commun- ication and language to show curiosity, help interaction, share feelings and thoughts, and coordi- nate actions with others 4. Flexible Thinking: Adapt and change plans when situ- ations change 5. Relational Information Processing: Solve problems without clear solutions and solve situations that don’t have a “right or wrong” solution 6. Foresight and Hindsight: Think about past experienc- es and foresee future possibilities in situations based on those past experiences 3. Sensory Integration Therapy Sensory integration therapy is all about decreasing sensory sensitivities whether it be light, texture, noise, or touch. This therapy is mostly play-based and involves focusing on the 39 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. things your child is most overly sensitive about. For exam- ple, if a child is overly sensitive to touch, a therapist will inter- act with the child by touching the back of his/her hand with different textures in hopes to desensitize him/her over time. Sensory integration is a form of occupational therapy and studies show it’s an effective intervention for those with au- tism ages four to 12. Along with sensory integration therapy, your child may also need speech and language therapy. The main goal of speech therapy is a focus on communication and so- cial interaction. Speech-language pathologists help a child communicate through the use of electronic talkers, sign language, picture boards, social skills development, pragmatic skills, sounds, and rhymes. These are all funda- mental in helping a child increase verbal and non-verbal communication.