multiple behaviors and each is done repetitively. While the list above are typical behaviors for children with autism, some children will display stims that cause physical harm. Stimming behavior leading to physical harm include: • Punching or biting • Headbanging • Excessive skin scratching • Scab or sore picking • Swallowing small objects Although science is unsure what causes stimming in autism, there are multiple theories to this behavior: 1. To stimulate or decrease the sensory system 2. A way to adapt to an unfamiliar environment 3. To calm him/herself 4. Show frustration 5. Avoid activities or expectations 77 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. While your child’s stimming may worry you, the behavior doesn’t need to be controlled unless it interferes with learn- ing, causes social isolation, is dangerous or causes issues for other family members. If you are worried about the stim- ming behavior, there are simple ways to manage it. How to manage stimming behavior: • Sensory toys - Squeeze toys, sensory balls, moldable toys, fidget toys, etc. • Eliminate medical conditions - Certain medical con- ditions like headaches, ear infections, and pain may be the cause or make stimming worse. Talk with your child’s doctor to ensure it’s not caused by other medi- cal conditions. 78 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. • Provide a calm environment - Stimming becomes worse under stressful situations. Try to avoid situa- tions where your child may be easily overwhelmed. • Try exercise - Research shows physical activity releas- es tension to reduce stimming. It also provides stimu- lation for those needing it most. • Teach self-regulation of emotions - This involves expressing emotions in a positive way compared to stimming, especially stimming behavior resulting in self-harm. All About Stimming in Autism Kids READ MORE Stacie Bennett For more on stimming behavior, read “All About Stimming in Autism Kids.” 79 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. Stimming Behavior and Autism: What it is, Causes And How To Manage It READ MORE Liz Talton For a parent’s perspective of stimming behavior, read the article “Stimming Behavior and Autism.” 80 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. Oral Stimming Similar to common repetitive motion seen in children with autism, oral stimming involves taste-testing, chewing, and/ or swallowing objects. Children who oral stim are often seen with clothing, toys, paper, sensory balls, pencils/pens, and other inanimate objects in their mouth. But with oral stimming, there are potential dangers to watch out for. 1. Small objects can be swallowed causing health issues 2. Chewing on hard objects causes tooth damage 3. Objects can cause chocking 81