Your Child A Sensory Seeker Or Avoider? READ MORE Liz Talton 86 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. Synesthesia and Autism Synesthesia is a rare condition affecting 1% percent of the population. It is a neurological condition where one sense is simultaneously perceived by one or more other senses. Although many people are born with the condition, it’s also possible to develop synesthesia later in life. Initial research indicates synesthesia may be genetically inherited. People with synesthesia may… • See the word “plane” as mint green • Picture a skyscraper, but taste blueberries • Read the number two, but see red 87 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. While there’s no specific way to diagnose synesthesia, Rich- ard Cytowic, MD and leading synesthesia researcher creat- ed specific guidelines for doctors to determine if a child has synesthesia. Synesthesia guidelines for diagnosis: • Involuntary – Perceptions are not actively thought about, they just happen. • Projected – Instead of seeing things like a color in the “mind’s eye,” a person will see the color outside their body. • Durable and generic – The perceptions must be con- sistent each time. For instance, when someone hears a particular song, he/she tastes chocolate. • Memorable – The synesthetic perception is remem- bered over the primary perception. For example, if someone associates the name “Laura” with the color purple, he/she will remember purple and not “Laura.” Research is now pointing to a connection between autism and synesthesia. Individuals with autism and synesthesia report higher levels of sensory sensitivity. Further research also reports synesthesia tends to appear in individuals with autism who have abilities in memory, art, arithmetic as well as high intelligence. 88 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. Although synesthesia doesn’t present any problems for a child, if you suspect your child may have synesthesia it’s im- portant to get he/she diagnosed to better understand how your child views the world along with autism. Is There a Link Between Synesthesia and Autism? READ MORE Stacie Bennett 89 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. Food Aversions and Autism Picky eating is common among children. But for children with autism, picky eating turns into food aversions. Research studies found children with autism are five times more likely to have fewer food selections, more mealtime tantrums, and ritualistic eating. Autism Parenting Magazine reports chil- dren with autism often limit food options to less than five types. While the specific cause of food aversion and autism is un- known, it’s suspected that sensory