Plays by themselves • Particular about food choices because of sensory issues • Prefers a limited amount of food choices Speech Blubs is an insanely fun app designed to develop kids’ speech! 15 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. Signs of Autism Spectrum Disorder READ MORE Stacie Bennett 16 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. Developmental Regression Developmental regression occurs when a child loses an ac- quired skill. A potty-trained toddler starts having accidents again. A talkative child reverts to babbling or using non- sense words. For many children, a developmental regres- sion is only temporary and may be the result of mastering a new skill or a major life change . But for some children, they are experiencing a regression due to the onset of autism symptoms . For the first year, many children who are later diagnosed with autism devel- op normally. It is possible for a child under one to show no signs of autism. However, once the child reaches the age of two, many parents notice autism signs that the child had not displayed before. If a child experiences a developmental regression not related to mastering a new milestone or a major life change, an eval- uation or screening for autism needs to be conducted. More than 100 words in 6 months with Speech Blubs! Elliot actually started using the Speech Blubs app when I had initially downloaded it for his older brother to help him with practice because he has hearing loss. Elliot was diagnosed with autism two months before turning 3. Pre-diagnosis he had about 15 words. We started using Speech Blubs almost daily. He was motivated by seeing other kids and the fun filters! Elliot is now 3.5 and has well over 100 words and is using 2-3 words together. We are so thankful that we had Speech Blubs to continue helping Elliot make progress during this year (when all therapists were shut down). We recommend it to everyone! It’s fun without feeling like the kids are “working.” Melissa Wang, mom of two amazing boys 18 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. Developmental Regression in Toddlers READ MORE Liz Talton 19 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. Diagnosing ASD Once a child displays signs of autism or a developmental re- gression, an evaluation for ASD should be conducted. Some children are diagnosed as early as 18 months. For most chil- dren, a diagnosis of ASD occurs after the age of two years. Although every child should be screened for