Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD): An All-in-One Guide for Parents Proudly presented by Download now 2 Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. The e-book was made by speech therapists, kids, parents, and teachers. For more resources on how to encourage speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. 3 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. Foreword We are the makers of Speech Blubs, the #1 educational app, and Reading Blubs, which teaches kids to read. This is who we are: Everything we do, we do to make an impact. We prize courage over professionalism. We don’t publish content until we measure it, and most importantly, our motto is: “We. Together. Strong.” Speech Blubs was created to help autistic kids. That’s why we use video modeling, where kids teach kids speech. This science-based method is known in autism therapy circles. Our app teaches kids to form sounds, words, and then sentences. Our global community is growing and includes therapists, teachers, and parents on four continents, many of whom contributed to this e-book. The blog section of our website is also a helpful resource. Thanks for downloading this e-book. To learn more about our apps, check out: Speech therapist advice for using Speech Blubs or Speech Blubs’ User’s Guide. They have tips and tricks to get you started. 4 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. We hope you will find valuable information in this e-book! Connect with us on social media, share your feedback and suggestions. We are always glad to hear from you! Find us on: Website: speechblubs.com Blog: https://speechblubs.com/blog/ 5 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. Foreword 3 Introduction 7 Common Myths about ASD 8 Recognizing the Early Signs of Autism Spectrum Disorder 11 Developmental Regression 16 More than 100 words in 6 months with Speech Blubs! 17 Diagnosing ASD 19 The Causes of Autism 23 ASD and Heredity 29 ASD and Severe Morning Sickness 32 Features 33 ASD Therapy and Tools 35 Floortime Play Therapy 40 IEP Goals for Autism 42 Video Modeling and Autism 46 Contents 6 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. Autism and Speech 49 ASD and Speech Delay 54 Nonverbal Autism 58 Benefits of the app for autistic kids 59 Ways to Encourage Speech Development at Home 61 PECS and Autism 69 How to Customize PECS for Your Child 72 Stimming Behavior 75 Oral Stimming 80 Sensory Issues 83 Synesthesia and Autism 86 Food Aversions and Autism 89 Resources, Books and Magazines on