iOS devices. 7 Ways to Help Your Child with Nonverbal Autism Speak 4 Ways To Help A Child With Nonverbal Autism Talk READ MORE READ MORE Stacie Bennett Liz Talton My son just turned 3, was diagnosed with Autism, and is still non- verbal. He loves Speech Blubs and he made the first animal sounds ever with the app. I love that even though his services got cut off during this pandemic, that I can help him learn with your Speech Blubs App! Thank you! Heather Fromme, Mom I am a caregiver for a 6-year-old who has autism with developmental delay. My daughter is just learning to repeat gestures, sounds and facial expressions so when she sees the kids acting as animals she lights up. I’ve seen her grow in just the short time we’ve used the app. Thank you so much for such a great resource in helping children thrive! Tabetha Garcia, Mom Just two years ago, my son was nonverbal, and with a diagnosis of severe autism. I could never explain with words the incredible hard work my child put in, for 60 hours a week or more, getting therapy every waking hour. He loves to practice with Speech Blubs! Mom of a Superstar My son is 6 years old. He was diagnosed with autism. He has speech delays but has the language. He loves Speech Blubs! It’s a fun app, really engaging and it’s great that it’s other kids speaking rather than adults! He goes around the house extending the words he has heard! It’s an amazing app and it never feels like work to him! Claire McCarthy, Mom I am a Behavioural Interventionist for children with ASD. I work with children aged 2-5. Children enjoy it a lot! It’s great for engagement and following directions. Crystal Lavis, SLP I use your app with kids with autism. They have difficulty with imitation and speech sounds. Video modeling makes it motivating!!! Thanks!!! Heather Magyar, SLP I use Speech Blubs with students with autism. The kids love it, and my non-verbal students are vocalizing to get the camera stickers. Great App! Joncee McFarland, SLP I use this app to elicit verbal imitation utterances. I use this app with students who have autism. I get lots of smiles, intently interested stares, and some (not all) verbal attempts. Joan Hart, SLP Download now 69 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. PECS and Autism The Picture Exchange Communication System (PECS) is a way for nonverbal children to communicate without words. For children with autism and other developmental disabili- ties, PECS gives them a “voice” to communicate their needs and wants. Since the 1980s, PECS has been helping chil- dren and caregivers for short and long-term use for develop- ing verbal speech. Research found children understand pictures better after the age of three. Therefore, PECS is recommended for children three and older.