Autism for Parents 93 Get your answer from a Speech Therapist 95 7 Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. Introduction The term autism is not what it once was. ‘Autism’ originally described a severe set of schizophrenia symptoms in 1911 by a German psychiatrist named Eugen Bleuler. This miscon- ception continued until the 1960s when child psychology became a science. Today, the term autism is known as ‘ Autism Spectrum Dis- order’ (ASD) . It’s used to describe a complex developmental disorder affecting communication and social skills first ap- pearing in childhood. When speaking about ASD, it’s import- ant to separate myths from facts. Also, for reasons of space this paper will use ‘autism’ and ‘ASD’ interchangeably. 8 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. Common Myths about ASD 1. Autism is curable. • Fact: Autism is not curable. It’s a lifelong developmen- tal disorder. 2. Individuals with autism cannot live an independent and successful life. • Fact: People with autism can live full, happy, and suc- cessful lives with the help of speech and occupational therapy. 3. The cause of autism is bad parenting. • Fact: There is no known single cause to autism. Stud- ies suggest the development of autism occurs before birth. 4. Individuals with autism do not speak. • Fact: Autism is complex. Some people develop speech normally, while others communicate with a combination of words, gestures, and communicative devices.. MYTHS ASD FACTS Kids with ASD avoid social contact. Individuals w/ASD cannot lead independent and successful lives. ASD is the result of bad parenting. Everyone with ASD has special talents or “savant” skills. ASD can be cured. People with ASD do not make eye contact. People with ASD cannot talk. ASD can be outgrown. People with ASD don’t have feelings, so they can’t show affection. Kids w/ASD can show affection, but its display may appear different than what is typical. Children do not outgrow autism, but symptoms may lessen or change as they receive appropriate interventions. Some will develop speech almost easily, while others require assistance to communicate. When relaxed and confident with the communication partner, eye contact can be quite spontaneous. There is currently no cure for autism. Individuals w/ASD respond very well to structured early intervention, education, and vocational placements. c. 10% of individuals w/ASD may have special abilities. Evidence shows that autism is caused from a difference in the way the brain develops before the child is born. Given appropriate education, many will grow up to be successful contributors to society. Individuals with ASD are often keen to make friends, but may find this difficult. 10 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. These common misconceptions about ASD only show the need for more