cause of a speech delay. A speech-language pathologist can identify if your child is experiencing a speech delay but cannot diagnose autism. Only a developmental pediatrician can diagnose autism. To help you better understand the difference between speech delay and autism here are the signs and symptoms of both. 55 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. Signs and symptoms of autism: • Delayed speech • Lack of eye contact or brief eye contact • Easily upset over minor changes in routine • Reactions to certain sounds, lights, touch, smells, or tastes • Difficulty understanding other’s emotions • Focused on a small range of interests or objects • Engages in repetitive behavior like spinning or rocking • Does not respond to his/her name by 12 months • Does not point at distant objects by 14 months TIP 1: To get you started, we have some great interactive guides, but feel free to try some activities from those most frequently chosen by children in the Sing-along, Animal Kingdom, Yummy Time, and Toy Box sections. Start Learning 56 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. Signs and symptoms of a speech delay: • Saying simple words clearly or unclearly by 12-15 months • Not using nonverbal gestures like pointing and waving by 12 months • Prefers to use gestures over words to communicate by 18 months • Troubles imitating sound by 18 months • Understanding simple words by 18 months • Troubles understanding simple requests • Only imitates speech or actions, but doesn’t produce words or phrases by 2 years • Says some sounds or words repeatedly by 2 years • Cannot use language to communicate needs by 2 years • Cannot follow simple instructions by 2 years • Unusual tone of voice (raspy/nasal sounding) by 2 years • Talks in short sentences by 3 years • Telling a story by 4-5 years 57 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. If My Child Has Speech Delay Does That Mean They Have Autism? READ MORE Stacie Bennett 58 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. Nonverbal Autism While it’s not an official diagnosis within the autism spec- trum, nonverbal autism is used to describe any child that does not use verbal communication. Roughly 40% of chil- dren are considered nonverbal and there is no known cause of nonverbal autism. Societal misconceptions often associ- ate nonverbal autism with low intelligence. However, non- verbal autism does not mean a lack of intelligence. In 2015, Cambridge University found those with autistic traits are more likely