• Removing consonants at the beginning or end of a word • Problems making words The evaluation will also examine your child’s hearing, start- ing and responding to instructions, and verbal and nonverbal communication skills. 51 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. To help you child with the skills above, here are 7 at-home speech activities to start today: 1. Model words with examples Grab your child’s favorite toy and hold it next to your mouth and say the word of the toy clearly and slowly. This helps your child see your mouth movements. 2. Find ways to amplify or change your voice This is a way to foster back and forth imitation. Use an emp- ty paper towel roll or voice-change app to make different sounds. 3. Offer two items While holding two objects near your mouth, clearly say the words of the objects and ask which item he/she would like. Once your child points or says a word to respond, re- peat the word of the object again. For example: “Would you like an apple or an orange?” 52 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. After your child points or says a word, repeat “You would like the orange.” 4. Add excitement to your words Change the tone of your voice by emphasizing sound at the beginning and ends of words. This will keep your child’s at- tention and help with imitation. 5. Make sound effects Add sound effects to books or while playing with toys during floortime play. 6. Repeat “core words” in simple sentences Keep “core words” simple and your sentences short, while focusing on emphasizing the core words. If you’re blowing bubbles, try core words like “bubble” or “pop.” 7. Encourage imitation with songs Use music to engage your child with imi- tating your mouth movements. Songs like “If You’re Happy and You Know It” and “Itsy Bitsy Spider.” Combine these songs with the actions and movements to go along with them. 53 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. Can Children on Autism Spectrum have Apraxia of Speech? READ MORE Stacie Bennett 54 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. ASD and Speech Delay When a child has a speech delay, parents often wonder whether the speech delay is due to autism. Although a speech delay is a sign of autism, symptoms of a speech de- lay and autism are very different. If you suspect your child has a speech delay, it’s important to either diagnose or rule out autism as the