for Android and iOS devices. Here are some joint attention goals for your child’s IEP: • Responding to the teacher’s voice • Showing understanding through both eye contact and gestures • Being able to recognize and describe the emotions of him/herself and others Social Reciprocity Social reciprocity is key for interacting with other people. It involves the back-and-forth interaction between two people. Children with autism spectrum disorder experience issues with social reciprocity like starting interaction, respond- ing to interaction by others, maintaining conversations, and turn-taking verbal communication. To help your child with social reciprocity, here are some goals for an IEP: • Maintaining interactions • Initiating conversations • Engaging in topic maintenance • Recognizing and attempting to repair communication breakdowns 44 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. Language and Related Cognitive Goals Language is more than speaking. It’s understanding and using the native language with both verbal and nonverbal communication. Pointing, waving, and facial expressions are all examples of nonverbal communication. Some examples of language and related cognitive goals for your child’s IEP can include: • Using gestures • Turning pages in a book while pointing at pictures • Using words and gestures to share intentions • Problem-solving • Understanding event sequences (sequences in stories, alphabet letters) • Using and combining words in creative combinations Behavioral and Emotional Regulation This area of a child’s IEP goals remains one of the hardest ar- eas to master for children with autism. Behavioral and emo- tional regulation involves understanding emotions, process- ing emotions, communicating their feelings, and coping with difficult emotions. 45 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. Some examples for behavioral and emotional regulation goals for an IEP include: • Asking for a soothing activity when upset • Expressing emotions • Talking through transitions in activities • Perceiving and predicting social behavior in others to self-monitor behavior Speech and Language Goals for Kids on Autism Spectrum READ MORE Stacie Bennett 46 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. Video Modeling and Autism Video modeling is another form of therapy recently intro- duced. But video modeling first appeared in 1982 by Stein- born and Knapp by using a combination of behavioral train- ing with a classroom-based environment to teach traffic and pedestrian skills to children within the autism spectrum. Today, video modeling is considered a go-to method for teaching social skills and helping speech delay with au- tism. The therapy is now advanced even further with the help of scientific studies about mirror neurons. Mirror neurons are sensory-motor cells in the brain that trig- ger or activate when… • An individual performs an action • Sees another person perform the same