on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. Tips for customizing the PECS for your child: • Focus on an area of need – These are pictures your child needs help with communicating the most. If your child needs help communicating he/she is hun- gry then focus on cards representing hunger. For example: Picture cards showing breakfast, lunch, and dinner foods, or your child’s favorite foods. • Follow your child’s interests – A child will show more interest in PECS if there are cards with their favorite toys, foods, activities, and more. • Cartoon versus real photos – PECS is either used with cartoon or real images. The best way to see how your child responds to one or the other is by creating some favorite images with both cartoon and real pho- tos. Then, see which one your child prefers to com- municate with. • Choose how to display PECS – How you choose to display PECS cards depends on the patience level of your child, his/her understanding, and if you choose to create a schedule with the cards. If you create a schedule, schedules will need to be displayed some- where easily accessible. 74 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. Here are some other ways to display and store PECS cards: • In a storage binder • Laminated and held together by a keyring • A schedule board with Velcro • A communication book (this includes long Velcro strips to make sentences with picture cards) Customize A Picture Exchange Communication System For Your Child For a parent’s perspective on customizing PECS read READ MORE Liz Talton 75 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. Stimming Behavior Stimming behavior is a sign of autism. But individuals who do not have autism also engage in stimming behavior. Stim- ming behavior may occur in any who is anxious or nervous and takes the form of nail-biting, foot jiggling, knuckle crack- ing, and more. While some with autism may engage in these common stimming behaviors, stimming in children with au- tism looks different because he/she is unable to stop. A child with autism may engage in the following stims: • Rocking back-and-forth • Hand flapping • Bouncing • Spinning • Walking on tiptoes • Repetitive blinking • Rearranging or lining up objects • Staring at ceiling fans or lights • Sniffing people and objects • Licking or rubbing objects • Repeating words and phrases 76 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. It’s important to note a child can engage in one behavior or in