For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. If your child is a “chewer” there are ways to manage and remove potential chewing hazards. • Inspect household objects frequently - Frequently check toys, books, and clothing for missing pieces or any signs of chewing. • Offer chewy snacks - To provide a healthy outlet for oral sensory needs, offer chewy snacks like dry cereal, granola, popcorn, veggie chips, carrots, celery, ap- ples, dried fruit, and fruit snacks. • Try chewable jewelry - Bracelets, necklaces, and pencil toppers made specifically for children with oral sensory needs. • Use redirection - If your child begins to chew on something he/she is not suppose to, redirect the chewing behavior to a “safe” object like sensory balls and chewable jewelry. • Offer drinks with straws - Drinking through straws may fulfill the oral sensory need your child is craving. 82 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. 5 Management Tips for Oral Stimming READ MORE Liz Talton 83 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. Sensory Issues Children with autism typically display signs of sensory pro- cessing disorder. Within sensory processing disorder, there are two times: Sensory avoider (hypersensitive) and senso- ry seeker (hyposensitive). Whether your child is a senso- ry seeker or sensory avoider, each type presents different symptoms. But children can display symptoms of both. A child who is a sensory avoider struggles to process envi- ronmental stimuli and becomes easily overwhelmed, there- fore they are overly sensitive to their environment. A sensory seeker is under-stimulated by his/her environment resulting in a child seeking out sensory stimulation. Sensory avoider symptoms: • Distracted by background noise (normally not notice- able to others) • Avoids touch (hugs and cuddling) • Appears clumsy (bumping into things) • Doesn’t tolerate loud noises • Becomes frightened easily by sudden loud noises • Very particular about clothing Start Your Free Trial MAMA! 84 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. • Avoids crowds due to loud noise or the possibility of being touched Sensory seeker symptoms: • High pain tolerance • Chews on inanimate objects (oral stimming) • Stands too close to others • Jumps, runs, and crashes into things • Doesn’t understand his/her own strength • Makes loud noises • Stimming behavior (rocking, spinning) • Explores the world through touch Get your child a head start with Speech Blubs. 85 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. Is