to pursue careers in technology, engi- neering, science, and math. All of which require high intelli- gence. Another study holds promising results for future ver- bal communication for nonverbal children with autism. The Center for Autism and Related Disorders studied re- cords of children with autism between the ages of 8 to 17. All the participants’ experienced language delays of either being nonverbal or only speaking simple words or phrases. Benefits of the app for autistic kids Firstly, the app uses video modeling to elicit responses from kids. This is where a child user watches a short video clip of another child teaching a word or phrase. In watching this, the child user’s ‘motor neurons’ trigger, and they want to im- itate what they see. This method is a known, go-to approach in speech therapy circles. As well, doing this gives children the opportunity to practice imitating what they see in the real world, so they get better at it. They are then encouraged to do this kind of learning outside of the app in real life. It should be noted that this approach, in the mind of an au- tistic child, is a safe way of learning this skill. It’s not a parent or therapist pushing them to “say it like your older brother,” or “come on, you can do it.” The child can safely, and in their own time choose to repeat and practice a specific skill as much as (s)he sees fit. In our experience, this approach helps them learn MUCH faster. It’s also fun because the app in- cludes games, fun face filters, and interesting facts, and is a way to practice speech therapy at home. We know that get- ting an appointment with a speech therapist can be difficult. 60 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. The study found the following positive results: 1. 70% of participants eventually spoke in simple sentences 2. 47% of participants became fluent speakers 3. Most participants had higher IQ’s then once thought 4. Repetitive behaviors (rocking or spinning) and intense interests didn’t affect language development Will My Nonverbal Autistic Child Ever Talk? READ MORE Liz Talton 61 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. Ways to Encourage Speech Development at Home If your child has nonverbal autism, working with a speech-language pathologist is essential for increasing communication with your child. However, there are simple things you can do at home to strengthen your child’s speech development. 1. Focus on nonverbal communication Add nonverbal communication by modeling it for your child. Increase eye contact. Nod or shake your head when say- ing yes or no. Point to objects you’re referring to. Learning these types of nonverbal cues increases communication of your child’s needs. Get Started 62 For more resources