speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. The Causes of Autism Although there are many myths about the causes of autism, there is not one single factor known to cause autism. In- stead, science is finding that autism is caused by a variety of factors. So far, there are seven factors attributed to a child devel- oping autism. 1. Role of Genetics Each family unit stands a likelihood of 1 in 68, or has a 1.5% chance of having a child with autism. But since family members have a similar ge- netic makeup, families who have one child with autism are at a 20% greater risk of having another child with autism. The risk then in- creases to 30% if a family already has two or more children with autism. 24 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. Swedish researchers found connections between a fami- ly’s history of mental and neurological disorders like ADHD, schizophrenia, or depression, and the odds of having a child with autism. The results concluded: • Children with a parent or sibling with mental and neu- rological disorders had 4.7 times greater risk • Children with a family with mental and neurological disorders stood a 7.6 times greater risk of developing autism and intellectual disability. Other studies yield similar results as well, contributing an in- crease in autism if a sibling has attention-deficit hyperactivi- ty (ADHD) or a parent has depression, anxiety, bipolar disor- der, or schizophrenia. 2. Birth Complications The American Journal of Perinatology found children were at an increased risk for developing ASD if they experienced birth complications. The birth complications found with the highest connection to ASD include: 25 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. • Preeclampsia • Placenta separation from the uterus • Breech or transverse birth • Oxygen deprivation during labor (birth asphyxia) • Prolapse or exposed umbilical cord While not one single birth complication pin- points if a child will have ASD or not, children who experienced the above complications do have an increased risk of developing ASD, according to the research. 3. Genetic Disorders Although it is rare, genetics may play a large factor in the risk and development of ASD. Both Rett Syndrome and Frag- ile X Syndrome have been found to place a child at a higher risk of developing ASD. However, it should be noted that both disorders are ex- tremely rare and are the result of genetic mutations. 26 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. 4. Born to Older Parents Research studies from Denmark, Israel, Sweden, and Cali- fornia have found men over 40 years old are at a six-fold in-