ASD are more likely to be diagnosed as well • Boys are diagnosed with ASD more than girls Try it now 30 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. • Vaccinated versus nonvaccinated children are equally at risk of an autism diagnosis • Children with older parents tend to be at an increased risk of autism • Premature babies born before 26 weeks show a great- er risk of autism While there’s no specific cause to autism, many profession- als in the field of treating and diagnosing autism believe ge- netics and environment combined play a role. It’s believed other genes may affect a child’s brain development or how the brain cells communicate. It could also be that specific genes determine how mild or severe autism symptoms will be. Although these are simply theories up for debate, the role of genetics, heredity, and environment are all key factors in de- termining the possible cause of autism. Once your child is making sounds, the app uses entertaining and educational videos to help them make words and then sentences. 31 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. Is Autism Hereditary? READ MORE Stacie Bennett 32 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. ASD and Severe Morning Sickness Along with examining genetics and environment, the de- bate about severe morning sickness, or hyperemesis grav- idarum, and autism needs to also be looked at as a possible cause. Severe morning sickness is categorized by excessive vomiting and nausea. The cause of severe morning sick- ness is thought to be hormonal changes and high levels of hCG (human chorionic gonadotropin hormone) during early pregnancy. Although the exact cause of severe morning sickness is still unknown, symptoms tend to appear between the 4th and 6th week. Many pregnant women find relief from symptoms at around 14 to 20 weeks. Still, 20% of women still require care for severe morning sickness for the rest of their pregnancy. Features One activity section in our app that a LOT of kids on the spectrum play with, and that parents find helpful, is the “What a Feeling” section. Here kids can find appropriate situational responses for daily emotions they may feel. “I’m sad,” or “I’m excited” shows kids in situations where they might be feeling these emotions, and then presents a kid ‘expert’ saying the response appropriately. Kids learn the situational cues, the correct response, and then practice saying that response. The use of video modeling engages kids and encourages them, because other kids are doing the teaching. Another section is “We Are Family,” which teaches the vo- cabulary, language, and names of various members of the members of families