awareness about this disorder. That’s why April is Autism Awareness Month. To better understand this developmental disorder, parents need to know how to recognize this disorder that affects 1 out of 110 children. Autism Awareness Month: Spreading the Word READ MORE Robert McKenzie 11 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. Recognizing the Early Signs of Autism Spectrum Disorder Autism is a complex disorder in which no two children or adults display the same signs and symptoms. It is also a disorder affecting different areas of a person’s life. While one area may be greatly affected, another area may ex- hibit no signs of autism. For example: A child may strug- gle with sensory issues, but is able to talk in back and forth communication. 12 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. Social • Cannot self-regulate emotions • Trouble adjusting to a new environment • Can only focus on one task at a time • Does not respond to questions correctly or even at all • Cannot communicate in back and forth conversation • Trouble relating to others Language • Loss of language previously acquired around the age of three • First words are nouns (objects) instead of proper nouns (names) and verbs (actions) • Noncommunicative gestures and expressions are de- layed the first year (waving goodbye or pointing) • Repeats words immediately after being heard. Also known as ‘echolalia.’ Delayed echolalia also occurs in which a child repeats words heard for hours, days, or weeks. • Limited eye contact with others 13 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. • Speech may be robotic and words may not flow together • Does not understand social norms of communication like the volume of voice or speaking over someone • Trouble understanding humor or sarcasm • Craves structure and predictability • Little to no fear • Unable to plan or organize tasks • Poor problem-solving skills • Does not use toys appropriately or for their intended purpose • Repetitive play Behavior and Emotional Regulation • Cannot handle changes in routine • Trouble applying learned skills • Uses objects differently or develops an attachment to certain objects or toys • Stimming behavior (rocking, chewing, hand flapping) • Unusual ways of expressing emotions (aggressive be- havior, meltdowns, tantrums, running away) Download now 14 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. • Repetitive and strict patterns of play, interests, and behavior • Cannot self-manage well Sensory and Eating • Overreacts or under reacts to environmental stimuli like light, sounds, and social situations •