of all kinds. Your child will point less often, and have more words to use for different people who come and go in your lives. 34 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. The Southern California Research and Evaluation Center found in a recent study that pregnant women with severe morning sickness were 53% more likely to have a child diag- nosed with ASD. The study further found: • Mothers with severe morning sickness diagnosed in the first and second trimesters put them at an in- creased risk of having a child with ASD. But no in- creased risk for mothers who were diagnosed in the third trimester • The severity of severe morning sickness did not in- crease the risk of autism • Severe morning sickness and autism was higher among mothers of girls than boys and more prevalent in Caucasian and Hispanics than Pacific Islanders and African Americans • Medications for treating severe morning sickness were not related to developing autism Another study in 2018 conducted by the Telethon Kids Insti- tute found pregnant women with hCG levels that were too high or too low raised their risk of having a child with autism. 35 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. ASD Therapy and Tools After your child receives a diagnosis of ASD, it is overwhelm- ing to think about doctor’s appointments, therapies, and changes at home. But the best part about autism therapy is it is not a “one size fits all.” Every therapy doesn’t work for every child. So, all the different types of therapies are cus- tomized to meet your child’s needs. When treating children with autism, there are three therapies typically used. While both studies found a link between the risk of autism and severe morning sickness, it doesn’t mean that it is the cause of autism. More research needs to be done to find or rule out the cause of autism, including the severity of morn- ing sickness during pregnancy. The app uses video recordings of a child “expert” performing a desired behavior. Children observe other kids in videos, which triggers their mirror neurons, which starts the imitation process. Start Learning 36 For more resources on speech development, visit speechblubs.com, or download the app. Proudly presented by Speech Blubs, a speech development app available for Android and iOS devices. 1. Applied Behavior Analysis This type of therapy is best suited for children who have been diagnosed with autism under the age of five. Applied behavior analysis is considered the “gold standard” for treat- ing autism because it changes bad behaviors and reinforces good ones with a reward and consequences system. A ther- apist may want to observe and treat the child in a daycare, home, or playground where challenging behavior typically occurs.