Turkish Archives of Pediatrics ABSTRACT In this paper, we provide an update on autism spectrum disorder (ASD), including epidemi- ology, etiopathogenesis, clinical presentation, instrumental investigations, early signs, onset patterns, neuropsychological hypotheses, treatments, and long-term outcome. The prevalence of this condition has increased enormously over the last few decades. This increase prompted a search for possible environmental factors whose effects would add up to a genetic predis- position leading to the development of autism. But the genetic and environmental variables involved are extremely numerous, and conclusive data regarding the etiopathogenesis are still far away. Assuming that a well-defined etiology is still found today only in a minority of cases, numerous pathogenetic mechanisms have been hypothesized. Among these, we mention oxi- dative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction, alteration of the intestinal microbiota, immune dys- regulation, and neuroinflammation. These pathogenetic mechanisms could alter epigenetic status and gene expression, finally leading to ASD. Inherent in the term spectrum is the great clinical heterogeneity of this condition, mainly due to the frequent comorbidity that character- izes it. The earlier the diagnosis is made and the earlier psychoeducational treatment begins, the better the prognosis. In this sense, the role of pediatricians can be decisive in making children with signs suggestive of autism undergo a specialist diagnostic course. The develop- ment of increasingly advanced cognitive-behavioral educational techniques has considerably improved the prognosis of affected individuals, even though only a small minority of them come off the autistic spectrum. Pharmacological therapies are used to treat comorbidities. During childhood, the most important prognostic factor for long-term outcome seems to be intellectual functioning. Keywords: Autism spectrum disorder, neurobiology, clinical presentation, neuropsychology, treatment, long-term outcome INTRODUCTION According to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition (DSM- 5), autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is an early-onset, mostly lifelong condition characterized by persisting deficits in social-communication skills (including social-emotional reciproc- ity, nonverbal communication, and developing/maintaining relationships) and restricted, repetitive behaviors (including stereotypies, insistence on sameness, highly restricted and fixated interests, and sensory abnormalities). Symptoms are present early in development and cause significant impairments in social and occupational functioning. ASD symptoms are not better explained by intellectual disability or global developmental delay, and this is a very important concept in order to avoid confusing these conditions. However, ASD often co-occurs with intellectual disability; comorbid diagnoses of ASD and intellectual disability are possible only when social communication skills are lower than expected in relation to the general developmental level. According to DSM-5, 3 levels of severity of ASD have been established: level 1 (requiring support), level 2 (requiring substantial support), and level 3 (requiring very substantial support). 1 The choice made in the DSM-5 to cancel the subdivision Autism Spectrum Disorder in 2023: A Challenge Still Open Annio Posar 1,2 , Paola Visconti 1 1 IRCCS Istituto delle Scienze Neurologiche di Bologna, UOSI Disturbi dello Spettro Autistico, Bologna, Italy 2 Department of Biomedical and Neuromotor Sciences, Bologna University, Bologna, Italy Corresponding author: Annio Posar  annio.posar@unibo.it Received: August 22, 2023 Accepted: September 5, 2023 Publication