have increased levels of systemic heavy metals interfering with their neurode- velopment and leading to autism, in many of these patients, chelation therapy has been attempted using an agent that binds to the excess heavy metal, causing its excretion. Yet, clinical trials of this therapy in ASD are lacking. Based on lit- erature data, in ASD there is no evidence for the effectiveness of chelation therapy, which is associated with very severe and potentially lethal side effects such as cardiac arrhythmias and hypocalcaemia. 48 Interesting findings are emerging regarding diet therapy. One recent systematic review and meta-analysis suggests that diet therapies (including ketogenic diets, gluten-free diets, and gluten-free and casein-free diets), may have favorable effects even on ASD core symptoms. However, more high-quality clini- cal trials are needed. 49 During childhood, the most important prognostic factor for long-term outcome seems to be intellectual functioning: the higher the intelligence quotient, the better the long-term evo- lution. But also, the presence of verbal language (although atypical) within 5-6 years of life appears to be a favorable prognostic factor. 43 Unfortunately, approximately 25%-30% of affected individuals develop very little to no verbal skills; they are called “minimally verbal” and usually show a poor long- term outcome. The severe deficit of communication skills (verbal and nonverbal) is very often the basis of the aforemen- tioned challenging behaviors. Also for this reason, providing early non-speaker individuals with alternative means of com- munication, such as augmentative and alternative communi- cation, is of paramount importance. 50 CONCLUSIONS For professionals who deal with ASD, it is a frustrating situation to witness the growth in the prevalence of this condition without knowing exactly the reasons and consequently without having the most suitable tools to counter it, despite all the knowledge about the neurobiology of ASD that has accumulated over the last years. Today, however, it seems clear that genetic fac- tors alone are unable to explain this phenomenon that some have called the “autism epidemic.” Therefore, in recent years, growing attention has been paid to the environmental factors that can trigger the mechanisms leading to the development of ASD. For these factors, actions of prevention could be very useful, but they require potentially unpopular political deci- sions whose possible effectiveness could be evaluated only in the long term. Unfortunately, nowadays we still know too little about environmental factors to undertake fully effective pre- vention actions. From the research perspective, perhaps to better understand why a child develops an ASD, it would be interesting to study not only what is possibly missing in him/her (e.g., chromosomal deletion detected by the array CGH) or what malfunctions (e.g., focal paroxysmal abnormalities on the electroencepha- logram), but also the existing possible protective factors, for example, in the genetic heritage of typically developing indi- viduals and which would be missing in subjects with ASD. This research approach could provide very useful information in the future, but it would clearly be very complicated to put into practice. The increasing prevalence of ASD clearly has a