Among these mechanisms, we mention oxidative stress, 13,14 mitochondrial dysfunction, 15 alteration of the gut microbiota (see the wide variety of microorganisms colonizing the human gastrointes- tinal tract), 16 immune dysregulation, 17 and neuroinflammation. 14 Note that these mechanisms are not mutually exclusive but could act in synergy with each other, leading to the develop- ment of ASD. 8 In reality, the true meaning of the alterations to these mechanisms has yet to be understood. Let us take the example of the gut microbiota: are the alterations found in subjects with ASD the cause of the disorder or its consequence, taking into account the food selectivity they often display and their propensity to bring inedible objects to their mouths? 18 A key to understanding how these pathogenetic mechanisms could act is given by the concept of epigenetics. Epigenetics is a crucial gene regulation system based on chemical changes in DNA and histone proteins without altering the sequence of DNA. The abovementioned pathogenic mechanisms could alter epigenetic status and gene expression, finally leading to ASD. Also, some environmental factors, including heavy metals (e.g., lead) and endocrine disrupting chemicals (e.g., pesticides), could directly or indirectly modify the epigenetic status. 19,20 However, the fact that, according to the most recent studies, the prevalence of ASD in males is confirmed (male-to-female ratio = 3.8) 9 suggests that, in the etiopathogenesis of the disor- der, genetics still outweighs acquired factors. We dedicate a last mention to the so-called syndromic autism. It describes the minority of individuals with ASD who present comorbid features and/or a putative genetic etiology. This concept has been deeply criticized, also because it has no sin- gle definition, and is probably destined to fall into disuse. 21 We have preferred not to use it in this review. HETEROGENEITY OF AUTISM SPECTRUM DISORDER CLINICAL PRESENTATION Inherent in the term “spectrum” is the great clinical heteroge- neity of this condition. The range of possible impairments in ASD goes from severe disability with almost complete absence of personal autonomy to a so-called high-functioning condition in which the individual can have normal or even higher-than- normal intellectual functioning and can play a role of respon- sibility in the social context. 3 The considerable heterogeneity of the ASD clinical picture is mainly due to the frequent comorbid- ity that characterizes it. Intellectual disability, atten tion- defic it/ hy perac tivit y disorder (ADHD), insomnia, mood disorders, and epilepsy are just some of the possible neuropsychiatric comor- bidities. Also, medical comorbidities, in particular gastroen- terological ones (including celiac disease), can complicate the clinical picture of individuals with ASD. 3,22 Another element of clinical heterogeneity is given by the possi- ble presence of sensory abnormalities that are very often found in subjects with ASD, especially in the first years of life, leading to a distortion of the perception of reality and representing the possible key to understanding many of their atypical behaviors (e.g., attraction to artificial lights, annoyance for crowded envi- ronments, food selectivity) and also of the so-called