a diagnostic workup in a center specialized in neuro- developmental disorders. For this purpose, it is very important to pay attention to all possible warning signs reported by par- ents as well as to directly observe the behavior of the child. 27 In infants, even before a possible speech delay becomes evi- dent, the most indicative signs of ASD are strictly related to social-communication skills as follows: looking at the faces of others; orienting to name; presence of joint attention (i.e., the ability to share focus with others on 1 object); affect sharing; and imitation. 31 When some of these behaviors are lacking, a specific assessment is mandatory. Further, let us not forget that the core signs of autism are not infrequently preceded by signs of impaired motor development, 32 such as motor delay, mostly slight, 33 hypotonia, 34 walking on tiptoes, and/or clumsiness. 1 Therefore, the presence of an early motor impairment, even if mild, should be included among the first signs that could lead to a timely ASD diagnosis. 32 Several different ASD onset patterns have been reported. The most frequent are the “early-onset” pattern, characterized by social-communication deficits developing in the first year or so, and the “regressive autism”, characterized by an onset of autistic signs in the second year, mostly at 16-20 months, asso- ciated with a loss of social-communication skills. Another onset pattern is characterized by mixed features: first delay and later loss of social communication skills. There is also an onset pat- tern named “developmental plateau”, characterized first by normal social development and/or non-specific abnormali- ties (involving also feeding or sleep), and later by a lack of new acquisitions on the socio-communicative level. 31 NEUROPSYCHOLOGICAL HYPOTHESES ABOUT AUTISM SPECTRUM DISORDER From a neuropsychological point of view, 3 main hypotheses have been developed to explain cognitive dysfunction in indi- viduals with ASD. 35 First, failure of theory of mind refers to the inability to interpret the behaviors of others based on their feel- ings and beliefs and to identify their intentions and emotions, leading to social communication impairments. 36,37 Second, there is the hypothesis of a deficit of executive functions, which are a series of cognitive processes including attention, work- ing memory, inhibitory control, planning, and cognitive flexibil- ity that are crucial for adaptive behavior and social cognition skills. 38,39 Third, weak central coherence theory refers to the propension of individuals with ASD to use an information pro- cessing style that is excessively detail-oriented, 40,41 leading to an impairment of social interactions for which an adequate integration of diverse elements such as voice, mimicry, ges- tures, and environmental context is necessary. 41 This theory partly overlaps with what was mentioned above regarding the multimodal integration deficit and underlines once again the fact that, although visuospatial skills and attention to detail represent strengths in these subjects, when they have to inte- grate this type of stimuli with other types of stimuli, they may encounter great difficulty. 35 These 3 theories are not mutually exclusive. Each of