challeng- ing behaviors (e.g., auto- or hetero-aggressiveness, throwing things, tantrums). 23 An impairment of multimodal integration (i.e., the ability to integrate information coming from differ- ent sensory channels: visual, auditory, somatosensory, etc.) has also been implicated. 23 In this regard, functional magnetic resonance imaging studies have highlighted elements that suggest an alteration of brain long-range connectivity in indi- viduals with ASD, 24 which could lead precisely to an impairment of this integration capacity. Turk Arch Pediatr 2023, [epub ahead of print] Posar and Visconti. INSTRUMENTAL INVESTIGATIONS IN INDIVIDUALS WITH AUTISM SPECTRUM DISORDER From the point of view of the etiological diagnosis, nowadays it seems essential to carry out the following investigations: hearing evaluation through behavioral audiometry or, if not possible, through an auditory brainstem response (ABR) test; genetic tests (array-based comparative genomic hybridiza- tion, or array CGH; in males, molecular search for fragile X syndrome; and in some cases, next generation sequencing); electroencephalogram possibly also during sleep, even in the absence of overt clinical seizures, in particular to rule out electroclinical conditions such as continuous spikes and waves during slow sleep (CSWS), which are potentially treatable with a drug therapy. 25 Common neuroimaging techniques, and in particular brain magnetic resonance imaging, are usu- ally normal or at most show nonspecific findings; 26 therefore, they should be performed only in some cases, including: a clinical history characterized by marked and persisting neu- rocognitive deterioration; the presence of clear neurological signs (macrocrania or microcrania, cerebral palsy, dystonia, etc.); a genetic condition that notoriously predisposes to a brain malformation; epileptic seizures; an electroencephalo- gram showing relevant alterations such as focal paroxysmal abnormalities or asymmetries of the electrogenesis. At the conclusion of the etiological workup, genetic counseling is rec- ommendable, even though instrumental investigations have not shown any significant results, aiming also at calculating the risk of recurrence of ASD (or other neurodevelopmental disorders) in the family. EARLY SIGNS AND ONSET PATTERNS OF AUTISM SPECTRUM DISORDER A reasonable diagnostic suspicion of ASD can usually be placed around 18 months of age, while a definitive diagnosis of ASD can commonly be made within 3 years of age. There are several tools for early screening of ASD; one of the most used is still today the Modified Checklist for Autism in Toddlers (M-CHAT). 27 To make the final diagnosis of ASD as objective as possible, standardized assessment tools are used today, such as the Autism Diagnostic Observation Schedule—Second Edition (ADOS-2), 28 and Autism Diagnostic Interview—Revised (ADI-R). 29 In this context, the time factor is very important. 27 The earlier the diagnosis is made and the earlier psycho- educational treatment begins, the better the prognosis. 30 In this sense, the role of pediatricians can be decisive in making children with signs suggestive of ASD undertake a specialist diagnostic course. Nowadays, several ASD screening tests for pediatricians are available, none of which, however, is without setbacks; they represent useful tools but should not be consid- ered the only source of information in order to decide whether to start