them is able to explain a part of the autistic symptomatology, but none is able to give a complete explanation. 35 TREATMENTS FOR AUTISM AND LONGTERM OUTCOME The development of increasingly advanced cognitive- behavioral educational techniques, of which the best known belong to applied behavior analysis (ABA) therapy, has con- siderably improved the prognosis of affected individuals. Applied behavior analysis utilizes the principles of psycho- logical learning theory in order to modify the behaviors usu- ally present in subjects with ASD. In the 1970s, Ole Ivar Lovaas Autism Spectrum Disorder in 2023 Turk Arch Pediatr 2023, [epub ahead of print] developed a method that was based on Burrhus Frederic Skinner’s operant conditioning theory, with the aim of chang- ing behaviors and improving social interactions in children with ASD. During the past 60 years, ABA has changed con- siderably, evolving into many treatment practices, with the aim of dealing with the problems of individuals with ASD in all functioning domains, such as cognition, social skills, language, daily living skills, and challenging behaviors. 42 Today, only a small minority of these subjects come off the autistic spectrum, but almost all can improve considerably by increasing their level of autonomy. 43 After the diagnosis, psychoeducational and often emotional support are very important for parents. Several other interventions are used extensively around the world for children with ASD, although the evidence for their effectiveness does not match that of ABA. Occupational ther- apy interventions, in particular those using new technologies such as the computer, have shown positive effects on activi- ties of daily living and social skills. 44 In the contest of occupa- tional therapy, sensory integration interventions, in particular when using the principles proposed by Anna Jean Ayres (e.g., tailoring challenges to assure that they are slightly beyond the current performance level of the child), showed positive effects on participation in daily-life activities and routines. 45 Floortime, a relationship-based therapy, has shown that it can improve communication, emotional functioning, and daily living skills in children with ASD. 46 A pharmacological therapy for the core symptoms of autism does not exist. However, pharmacological therapies are used to treat comorbidities: for example, melatonin or (if not effec- tive) niaprazine for sleep disorders, antiseizure drugs for epilepsy (the choice of drugs depends mainly on the type of epilepsy and possible behavioral undesirable effects), and methylphenidate for ADHD. In addition, drug therapy is used to treat challenging behaviors when cognitive-behavioral interventions have not produced adequate results. In these situations, atypical neuroleptics (e.g., risperidone and aripip- razole) are currently the most commonly often used drugs. Indeed, based on a recent systematic review and meta-anal- ysis of antipsychotic medications in autism, there is some evi- dence for favorable effects of risperidone and aripiprazole on irritability and agitation in children with ASD. 47 However, we wish to underline that the use of pharmacotherapy should be resorted to only when there is a real need and, if possible, for limited periods of time. Based on the hypothesis that children with ASD