the IEP. The communication and prior knowledge of proposed goals enables you. the parent time to review, ask questions, and make clarifications in a less intimidating setting.  The IEP can be a very intimidating experience. Many parents ask a friend or support person to attend the meeting. The support person is present to take notes, enabling the parent to actively listen and contribute to the Team’s educational planning for the next school year. 76 Focus on The Child’s Needs, Not The District’s Nor The Parents The Individuals with Disabilities Education Act IDEA. is designed for children with special needs to have access to a Free and Appropriate Public Education FAPE. in their Least Restrictive Environment LRE.  The Team will evaluate your child. Together, the Team develops a strategy.  Design specific, measurable, and realistic yearly IEP goals.  Although parents want the best for their child; school districts do not have to provide “the best”, schools are obligated to provide an appropriate education for your child to make progress. Learn to find what is “appropriate” for your child and work to achieve that. Have A Dilemma? Or Confused  When differences occur, try to work as a team to find creative solutions to meet the educational needs of your child.  Encourage problem solving prior to the IEP with the Team.  Have more than one approach to offer.  Be prepared to back your suggestions with documentation/research on why and how it would work for your child  If you have a disagreement, try to not make it personal. Everyone is entitled to their view and position. You just have to learn to sell yours as the most appropriate choice. Build Your Paper Trail.  Be calm if you are concerned about how a situation is developing.  Prepare to produce reports to illustrate, if for example, goals are not being attempted.  Always have a written record of all reports, documents, as well as, documenting dates and times of informal meetings and telephone calls.  Provide written solutions for the Team on how situations are handled at home for your child. Trade Shoes for a Day  Think seriously about the Teacher and District’s view.  Volunteer occasionally in your child’s class or school.  Invite Team members to visit your child’s home life.  Offer suggestions instead of demands.  Provide research to the Team regarding your child’s special needs. 77 Listen, Even If You Don’t Want To  Open your ears, heart, and head.  Try to not over react, keep listening.  Stay focused and calmly state your position. Good Faith  Generally, trust your child’s Team to act in good faith.  If they need education, supply it.  If you need educated about something, ask for it. Illinois State Board of Education information for parents of special needs https://www.isbe.net/Pages/Special-Education-Parents-of-Students-with- Disabilities.aspx The above was taken in part and consolidated from; with permission “Play Hearts, Not Poker”, By: Jennifer Bollero, Esq. Full version