to change the environment, teach skills, and make other changes that make a correct behavior more positive for the child. This encourages the child to behave more appropriately. 38 Pivotal Response Training (PRT) PRT takes place in the child's everyday environment. Its goal is to improve a few "pivotal" skills, such as motivation and taking initiative to communicate. These help the child to learn many other skills and deal with many situations. Early Intensive Behavioral Intervention (EIBI) EIBI provides individualized, behavioral instruction to very young children with ASD. It requires a large time commitment and provides one-on-one or small-group instruction. Discrete Trial Teaching (DTT) DTT teaches skills in a controlled, step-by-step way. The teacher uses positive feedback to encourage the child to use new skills. Early Intervention Research shows that early diagnosis of and interventions for autism are more likely to have major long-term positive effects on symptoms and later skills. Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) can sometimes be diagnosed in children before they are 2 years of age. Early intervention programs often include : • Family training • Speech therapy • Physical therapy Early interventions occur at or before preschool age. Early interventions not only give children the best start possible, but also the best chance of developing to their full potential. The sooner a child gets help, the greater the chance for learning and progress. If you can dream it, you can do it. Always remember that this whole thing was started with a dream and a mouse. ~ Walt Disney 39 Joint Attention Therapy for Autism Research shows that many people with autism have difficulty with joint attention, which is the ability to share focus on an object or area with another person. Examples of joint attention skills include following someone else's gaze or pointed finger to look at something. Joint attention is important to communication and language learning. Joint attention therapy focuses on improving specific skills related to shared attention. Medication Treatment for Autism Currently, there is no medication that can cure autism spectrum disorder (ASD) or all of its symptoms. But some medications can help treat certain symptoms associated with ASD, especially certain behaviors. Healthcare providers often use medications to deal with a specific behavior, such as to reduce self-injury or aggression. Minimizing a symptom allows the person with autism to focus on other things, including learning and communication. Research shows that medication is most effective when used in combination with behavioral therapies. Nutritional Therapy For a variety of reasons, children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) may not get the nutrition they need for healthy growth and development. Some children with autism will only eat certain foods because of how the foods feel in their mouths. Other times, they might avoid eating foods because they associate them with stomach pain or discomfort. Some children are put on limited diets in hopes of reducing autism symptoms. It is important that parents and caregivers work with a nutrition specialist—such as a registered dietitian—or health care provider to design