ages birth through eight, with an emphasis on children with special needs  Supports family-centered, researched and effective practices in early childhood education and care. 84 Illinois State Board of Education www.isbe.net Phone: 866.262.6663 100 N. 1 st St. Springfield, IL 62277  ISBE Parents Rights Guide - IEP Guide  Dispute Resolution  Listings for Residential placements – start at the local level EDUCATIONAL WEB SITES Access Living www.accessliving.org  A center of service and advocacy for people with disabilities, run by people with disabilities.  Update to date information for educational and disability laws in Illinois IEP 4 U www.iep4u.com  4000 free Goals and Objectives (IEP-ITP) each with changeable benchmarks.  Idea Statements are spread out over seven subjects (Domains) and four functional levels  Educates disabled individuals about their rights and responsibilities OCALI – Ohio Center for Autism and Low Incidence www.ocali.org/center/autism  Resources and interventions to support students with autism  Introductions to autism  Find breaking news and the latest in autism research 85 NICHCY (National Dissemination Center for Children with Disabilities) www.fhi360.org/projects/national-dissemination-center-children- disabilities-nichcy  NICHCY provides information on specific disabilities; programs and services for infants, children and youth; U.S. special education law  NICHCY also offers links to state agencies, parent groups and organizations around the country that offer assistance and information  Specialists available to respond to personal questions and concerns in English or Spanish via a toll-free hotline or an email response system called “Ask NICHCY.” Teachers Pay Teachers https://www.teacherspayteachers.com  Subscription based resources for anyone to use  Teachers Pay Teachers is the go-to platform created by teachers, for teachers to access the community, content, and tools they need to teach at their best.  A marketplace for teachers to exchange instructional materials and access easy-to-use digital tools.  Boasts the world's largest catalog of over 5 million pieces of educator- created content. U.S. Department of Education’s Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) https://sites.ed.gov/idea  (IDEA) website, which brings together IDEA information and resources  Whether you are a student, parent, educator, service provider, you are here because you care about children with disabilities and their families and want to find information and explore resources on infants, toddlers, children, and youth with disabilities. 86 Wrights Law www.wrightslaw.com  Accurate, up-to-date information about special education law and advocacy for children with disabilities.  Online advocate library  Online law library  The Special Ed Advocate Newsletter “[My teacher] basically bribed me back into learning with candy and money and what was really remarkable was before very long I had such a respect for her that it sort of re-ignited my desire to learn.” ~ Steve Jobs 87 Financial Assistance ABLE Accounts https://www.ablenow.com Phone: 844-669-2253 Online access  Contribute up to $15,000 each year.  Tax advantages  Save while maintaining eligibility for public benefits such as Medicaid and Supplemental Security Income (SSI).  Pay for a variety of expenses related to maintaining health, independence and quality of life. The All Kids