provided for individuals under the age of 21 with a cap of $36,000 per year. Selective Services Registration www.sss.gov/register  Virtually all men must register with Selective Service  If your son gets a call from a recruiter, simply tell them he has a disability/autism. 124 Service Dogs According to service dog organization Paws for a Cause, these dogs help to “improve social interactions and relationships, expand verbal and nonverbal communication, teach life skills, increase interest in activities and decrease stress within the family.” These tasks include:  Helping their person get ready for school in the morning;  Picking up dropped objects  Alerting passers-by to an emergency situation  Simply act as a calming presence in their person’s life. Whatever their particular assignment may be, autism assistance dogs provide incredible help and companionship. They have been known to help with sensory issues, social skills, seizures, and wandering Some families have trained the service dog to locate the child when the child is not in sight. Service Dog Organizations Autism Service Dogs of America www.autismservicedogsofamerica.org Medical Mutts https://medicalmutts.org/our-service-dogs/autism-service-dogs/ Paws for Ability https://4pawsforability.org/autism-assistance-dog Paws with a Cause www.pawswithacause.org Unfortunately, a service dog can cost upwards of $20,000, the cost is almost never covered by health insurance. There are a variety of groups that provide funding for people to afford service animals, like Petco Foundation. Ultimately, many people who don’t have the money needed of a service animal look to community and fundraising like GoFundMe to help cover the cost. 125 Six Flags Amusement Parks Special Passes www.sixflags.com/greatadventure/plan-your-visit/accessibility  Six Flags has been designated as a Certified Autism Center (CAC) from the International Board of Credentialing and Continuing Education Standards  Six Flags’ Attraction Access Program is designed to accommodate guests with various disabilities or certain impairments so they may participate in the enjoyment of the parks. Each Six Flags has been evaluated for the necessary criteria for an individual to ride safely.  Guests with cognitive disorders, disabilities or mobility impairments who request helpful accommodations must obtain the IBCCES Individual Accessibility Card (IAC) by registering at www.accessibilitycard.org . Once a guest has filled out the online application and uploaded necessary documentation, they will be able to access their digital Accessibility Card. Guests will present the IBCCES Accessibility Card and Information Sheet to the to the Ride Information Center to receive the necessary accommodations. 126 Autism: Past Present & in the Movies Historical Figures thought to have Autism/Asperger’s Hans Christian Anderson - Writer Jane Austen - Writer Ludwig Von Beethoven - Composer Marie Currie - Polish-French Physicist Charles Darwin - Naturalist and Geologist Emily Dickenson - Poet Leonardo Di Vinci - Inventor, artist, writer, scientist Thomas Edison - American Inventor Albert Einstein - German-American scientist Bobby Fischer - American chess player Henry Ford - Founder of Ford Motor Company Ben Franklin - One of America’s Founding Father’s Sir Alfred Hitchcock - British Movie Director Michael Jackson - American Musician Thomas Jefferson - Third President of the United States Steve Jobs -