in Nick’s growth – in his quest for independence. He has a girlfriend he wants to marry. He wants to live on his own. He wants to spend time with friends. His life is everything a parent hopes for when they bring that bundle home from the hospital. The struggles have been so many, but every step has had 24 a purpose. Every step was and is an opportunity for growth. I often look back at his diagnosis and think – mild retardation – not this kid! He’s smart as a whip! This young man is amazing!” I think my point to all this is always assume that your child can. What they can do may be different than “the plan”, but it will be ok. Seek out other parents to help you, know you aren’t alone, and know that others are where you are or have been there and survived. And I honestly believe that struggles make us stronger – You got this – but I’m here just in case. Nicks club he started for social opportunities 25 Austin’s Story Autism…the word stuck in my head. My mind leapt forward to what that might mean for the future, and back to when at thirty-two weeks into our pregnancy with twins, we heard the words, “congestive heart failure”. Somehow the news seemed to bring them both together. I left the doctor’s office slightly dazed and more than a little scared. Nearly three years before I heard the word “autism”, we ran into problems causing our twin boys Michael and Austin, to be taken by emergency c- section. Michael was delivered first and was doing well considering he was so small, Austin was taken as quickly as possible after, but he didn’t have a heartbeat. Resuscitation efforts were miraculously successful. Both boys spent several weeks at Riley’s Children’s Hospital and after a tremendous amount of care, they were pronounced healthy and we got to take them home. In the first year and a half of their lives, both of the boys developed quite typically; eating, sleeping, walking, talking, and playing together. Then when they were about 18 months old we started noticing small changes in Austin. He slowly stopped responding to directions, or even acknowledging that someone was talking; began playing with toys in his “own” way; refused to eat things he’d always eaten; and was not talking anymore. We brought our concerns to the doctor many times, each time hearing “don’t worry he’ll talk when he’s ready”, or “don’t compare him to his brother.” Austin continued his slow regression and finally after more than a few visits to our local pediatrician we were able to get a referral and our first diagnosis; “developmental delays and atypical in the area of speech for autism.” About the same time we received the diagnosis we moved to Bloomington, Illinois. Wow, was that a good move. We immediately met with our local early intervention service providers, known as S.P.I.C.E. I cannot even begin to