 Toca Boca is a play studio that makes digital toys for kids. We think playing and having fun is the best way to learn about the world. Therefore we make digital toys and games that help stimulate the imagination, and that you can play together with your kids. Best of all – we do it in a safe way without advertising or in-app Todo Visual Schedule  Using the iPad or iPhone app, a caregiver can make a visual schedule for the the wearer. There are included icons or icons/photos can be uploaded to the app to make custom icons. The schedule can then be sent to the wearer’s Apple Watch and will alert them when he/she needs to change tasks or start a new task. Touch and Learn- Emotions  What does a sad face look like? For people with autism, the answer to this and similar questions isn’t always so simple. This app helps teach these facial cues to autistic children. It uses more than 100 photos to show expressions and body language that we encounter every day. You can customize the app so the images and emotions are appropriate for your child. 115 Safety Local Registries City of Bloomington Premise Alert Program www.cityblm.org/government/departments/police/premise-alert-program Bloomington Police Department 305 S East Street Bloomington, Illinois 61701 Bloomington Fire Headquarters 310 N. Lee St. Bloomington, IL 61701  The Illinois Premise Alert Program (Public Act 96-0788) provides for Public Safety Agencies in the State of Illinois to allow people with special needs to provide information to Police, Fire and EMS personnel to be kept in a database. The information can then be provided to responders dealing with situations involving Special Needs Individuals.  Premise Alert Program application can be printed online  Drop off can be made to the Bloomington Police Department or Bloomington Fire Department at the above addresses. McLean County Functional Needs Registry https://health.mcleancountyil.gov/244/McLean-County-Functional-Needs- Registry Phone: 309.888.5450 McLean County EMA 104 W. Front St. Bloomington, IL 61701  The Functional Needs Registration documents the needs of people with physical, mental or medical limitations due to impaired vision, hearing or mobility. Language barriers also qualify to be documented through the Functional Needs Registry. Registration is free. 116  Information provided to the registry will be kept confidential and will only be shared with emergency personnel to offer assistance in response to an emergency. The Functional Needs Registry database is owned and maintained by the McLean County Emergency Management Agency (EMA).  Application is made online at above address. Town of Normal/McLean County Early Notification Program www.normal.org/288/Early-Notification-Program Phone: 309.454.2444 Normal Police Department 100 E Phoenix Avenue Normal, IL 61761  The McLean County Early Notification Program is specifically designed to provide responding law enforcement officers with information to assist them in responding to calls involving individuals with special needs. If responding officers are made aware of these special needs prior to arrival, they may be better equipped to understand and appropriately respond to calls involving these residents.  Any McLean