vocabulary with the user taking and saving pictures independently to the app. Happi Papi Apps  Happi Reads is the game for beginning reading/sight word practice. Match a word with one of three pictures. Earn fruit you can “eat.” Healthy and fun! Happi Spells is a mini-crossword puzzle game where you drag tiles to complete the puzzles. Vivid, original artwork and hours and hours of content. iCommunicate  Create pictures, flashcards, storyboards, routines, and visual schedules. Record custom audio in any language. Converts any words with Text to Speech that do not have custom audio recorded. We include 100+ pictures(first 5 have audio) to get you started. Add pictures with your camera, or from your camera roll, or use online image search. Utilize as audio visual prompting tool or AAC device. iPrompts  iPrompts is a mobile, visual support aid for the iPhone and iPod Touch. This app provides several picture-based prompting tools (no voice output) for caregivers to help individuals transition from one activity to the next, understand upcoming events, make choices, and focus on the task at hand. Model Me Going Places™  Model Me Going Places™ is a great visual teaching tool for helping your child learn to navigate challenging locations in the community. Each location contains a photo slide show of children modeling appropriate behavior. 6 locations: Hairdresser, Mall, Doctor, Playground, Grocery Store, and Restaurant. 112 Mood Meter-building your emotional intelligence  People on the autism spectrum may not only have difficulty understanding how other people emote. They may have difficulty understanding their own emotions, too. Mood Meter is specifically designed to help people get in touch with their emotions. You use it to gauge your feelings each day or at regular intervals throughout the day. Look back and identify any patterns and grow your emotional vocabulary. Otsimo | Special Education AAC  The Otsimo app uses techniques designed around applied behavior analysis (ABA) and alternative and augmentative communication (AAC) to help children reach speech development milestones as well as achieve desired lifestyle skills, behaviors, and much more. It has over 50 games that can be personalized to a child’s specific needs, and it provides progress reports along the way that show how far they’ve come since using the app. Pictello  Pictello is a great way for kids to create social stories that can help them find their unique voice and prepare for internal and external struggles. Pro-AAC App for Autism  Another comprehensive tool for children who are nonverbal, the Avaz Pro app is a tool that gives a voice to children who struggle to communicate. According to the creators, it was designed with 25 schools and 500 children in an effort to create the most useful tool possible. There are over 15,000 images that can be turned into words along with the ability to track your child’s progress. You can even turn their vocabulary into a print book. Proloquo2Go: AAC In Your Pocket  Proloquo2Go is a new product from AssistiveWare that provides