one can be hard for anyone, but for children with autism it can be especially difficult to comprehend. As a parent it’s a difficult topic during a difficult time. Below are a few resources for helping you help your child. Death and Grieving: Tips from Pathfinders for Autism https://pathfindersforautism.org/articles/home/parent-tips-death-and- grieving How to Talk to Your Child with Special Needs about Death https://www.friendshipcircle.org/blog/2013/08/20/how-to-talk-to-your- child-with-special-needs-about-death Supporting Individuals on the Autism Spectrum Coping with Grief and Loss through Death or Divorce https://www.iidc.indiana.edu/irca/articles/supporting-individuals-on-the- autism-spectrum-coping-with-grief-and-loss Guardianship at age 18 School  If your child has an IEP, they are entitled to attend school until the end of school the year they turn 22. You however are not automatically the decision maker after age 18. Either you need to get guardianship, or have your child sign a form provided by the school.  If your child is unable to sign, the school team can make a determination that you can continue to make decisions on their behalf Medical / Financial  After the age of 18 your child is considered an adult and thus can make their own decisions. If you feel that your child is not capable of making decisions you can apply for guardianship.  In Illinois there are many types/level of guardianship. You should consult a lawyer to help you through this process  Power of Attorney – If your child is capable of making sound decisions, but still needs your help you might consider drafting Power of Attorney papers. There are two types of Power of Attorney (POA) – One for Medical, and one for Financial. Power of Attorney forms need to be signed and dated to be valid. 123 Hidden Disability Sunflower Program Central Illinois Regional Airport Central Illinois Regional Airport (CIRA) is excited to make air travel, and the airport more accessible to everyone. Many travelers have disabilities that are not immediately visible but still create challenges in their daily lives. Airport staff is trained to recognize the individual wearing the lanyard may need extra help, time or assistance. CIRA is among the many U.S Airports to join the Hidden Disabilities Sunflower Program. The Sunflower Program allows a person to self–identify as someone with a hidden disability who may require additional assistance. This will allow passengers who require a little require extra assistance with travel through CIRA easier. The Sunflower Lanyard helps creates a simple way to signal airport staff that a passenger has a disability without revealing the nature of the disability. Simply, airlines can provide the lanyard to any passenger who asks for one. There is no prerequisite for them and passengers should still arrange assistance with their airlines if a disability service is needed. Hidden disabilities can include autism, anxiety disorders, epilepsy, learning disabilities, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), and many other impairments or chronic illnesses. Illinois State Regulated Insurance Coverage  The Illinois Insurance Bill was passed in 2008.  Services covered are diagnosis, psychiatric care, psychological care, habilitative or rehabilitative care and therapeutic care. ABA is