businesses, organizations and individuals to expand awareness and inclusion.  Six Aspirations to becoming an Autism Friendly Community *Welcome Me *Learn with Me *A Place for Me * Wellness for Me *Work with Me * Recreation for Me Autism News Network www.theautismnewsnetwork.com  A wealth of information can be found on this site. Created by a parent in Illinois.  Has a lot of state information and links to many other sites Autism Research Institute www.autism.org  ARI is devoted to conducting research and to disseminating the results of research on the triggers of autism and on the methods of diagnosing and treating autism. Research based information for parents and professionals. 74 Autism Society of America www.autism-society.org  Advocacy groups website features the latest news, calendar of events, search feature to find society chapters near you and lots of information on autism itself.  Resources on friends, puberty, siblings, sleep, and more Autism Speaks www.autismspeaks.org  Resources to many prominent autism sites  Education Campaign Materials  Online Merchandise Store  Printable Toolkits for home, family and school First Signs www.firstsigns.org  Dedicated to educating parents and professionals about autism and related disorders I Care 4 Autism www.icare4autism.org  Searchable website for resources, information, links to other organizations, products etc MAAP/O.A.S.I.S www.aspergersyndrome.org  Information on diagnostic scales, education, related disorders, social stories, adult issues etc.  Quarterly newsletter 75 Disabilities in Education Guidance Individualized Education Program (IEP) The IEP annual review meeting, required by Federal statutes, is convened at least once a school year to plan educational services that are tailored to the individual needs of each child with a disability. Any member of the Team may request an IEP meeting. The annual review is held to review the child’s progress on goals and objectives over the past school year, to develop new goals for the following year, and determine placement. The child’s Team is composed of parents, teachers, administrators, therapists, and any other invited parties. Team members bring to the table, knowledge of not only their field, but of the child’s strengths and weaknesses. It is important that all members speak openly, yet respectfully, while discussing the child’s disability, and educational plans. Make Every Attempt To Maintain A Pleasant Relationship With The Team  Show respect for each other.  Be patient as the Team learns about your child.  Model the behavior you want from the IEP Team. Preparation, Preparation, Preparation The IEP may be an overwhelming and emotional experience for the parent. Be prepared, and plan ahead. One aspect of being prepared for the annual review is to have a continuing channel of communication throughout the school year with Team members.  About one month prior to the annual review, make a written request to Team members to obtain proposed goals and objectives. If you. the parent have proposed goals, you should provide them to the appropriate Team members for consideration. Set up an appointment to discuss the proposed goals, at least one week in advance of