a full- featured communication solution for people who have difficulty speaking. It brings natural sounding text-to-speech voices, up-to-date symbols, powerful automatic conjugations, a default vocabulary of over 7000 items, full expandability and extreme ease of use to the iPhone and iPod touch. 113 Reading Machine  Once children learn basic phonics, the best activity for reading skills is reading. Now kids can spend more time reading books—on their own or with you—without getting stuck on any words. When they come to a word they don’t know, they type it in the Reading Machine. The Reading Machine doesn’t just tell them the word: first it shows them how the letters and sounds go together, so they can try figuring it out themselves. See.Touch.Learn.  This iPad Picture Card learning system makes traditional picture cards obsolete. Selected by Apple for their retail stores and a Top-Ten FREE iPad Education app in 15 countries. Thousands of stunning, high-quality photos, easy to use and highly effective, and designed specifically for those with autism and other special needs. Lessons designed by a Certified Behavior Analyst. FREE in the Apple iTunes store! Social Skill Builder  Social Skill Builder’s series of innovative software programs use interactive videos to teach key social thinking, language and behavior that are critical to everyday living. Sosh: Improving Social Skills with Children and Adolescents  SoshTM is an approach to social skills based on a decade of work with children, adolescents, and young adults who struggle with social difficulties. The Sosh framework divides social functioning into five areas essential to social skills development and success: Relate (Connect with Others), Relax (Reduce Stress), Regulate (Manage Behaviors), Reason (Think it Through) and Recognize (Understand Feelings). These “5R’s” serve as a road map for individuals who want to be social, but may have faced obstacles in the past, and also serve as a guide for parents, teachers, and therapists hoping to encourage and assist individuals with their social goals. Starfall ABCs  Starfall ABCs is an app created to help children learn the alphabet. It’s a great tool for some children with autism. It allows them to progress at their own pace, learning to recognize letters and the sounds associated with them. The app uses bright colors and games to keep children engaged and entertained. 114 Tell Me About It!  Tell Me About It! teaches the label, category, function, and features of more than 235 language targets over 6 levels of incremental difficulty. The presentation of each target conforms to an Applied Behavior Analysis program with reinforcement provided by a token economy system. This App is ideal for both parents and educators who are working on teaching children language through ABA/VB teaching methods. Time Timer Apps  Ideal for visual people with Autism, these Apps help the whole family, classroom and workplace improve time management skills. Time Timers can automatically repeat, display time in 4 bright colors, run multiple timers at once, and even teach children how to read a clock! Toca Boca