the diagnosis and the next hurdle was whether or not to put it on her school records. By the way, Kira is still gluten free as she identifies that it helps her focus; the diet did not, however, “cure” her autism. Gluten absolutely does, however, negatively impact her behavior and, man, it’s a whole heck of a lot easier to be gluten free in 2021 than it was in 2001. One of the biggest blessings of our life has been being a part of the Autism Society of McLean County. It gave us a community. It gave us playdates where ISU students would play with our children and the parents could just sit and talk and not freak out if their kid was screaming, stimming, saying things that didn’t seem to fit into the conversation (or any conversation), or feeling judged as a generally bad parent. It was a safe space to try out new activities with our kids (both Kira and Haley profited from these opportunities), and gave Kira the opportunity to be in sports which later translated to being in sports with all sorts of typical peers because of first being in those activities within the safety net of ASMC. The Autism Society gave us the opportunity to go to movies that were not totally dark, that kids could roam and self-talk and be themselves so that later, Kira could go to movies and not do those things. Being part of ASMC made us brave to try out new things like Penguin Project (a theater experience where individuals with special needs are partnered with a typical peer to put on a play), which both our girls were part of from ages 9 and 11 until Haley went to college four years ago and this season will be Kira’s last year before she “ages out.” Kira is also part of a wonderful community of peers through Special Olympics and SOAR (Special Opportunities in Adult Recreation) through the City of Bloomington and she will be able to be part of that for the rest of her life! ASMC gave Kira the opportunity to go to camp, just like other kids. She still loves to go to Timber Pointe for a week of overnight camp at age 23. Oh, but that first weekend camp with ASMC was ROUGH on Haley and I. We cried all weekend long, worried about Kira who, as far as we know, did great. We let any doctoral and graduate students studying autism and strategies come into our home and interview us, interview Kira, and try out their learning strategies on her as part of their research. We learned a ton from them. We learned about visual schedules we could use at home and in the 19 car and we learned about social stories, which changed our lives. Kira could follow a story of what would happen throughout the day and she carried it with her everywhere she went for most of her years in school. Every