express what a wonderful, knowledgeable group of people they were. From the point of doing intake with our family to all of the services they provided, we felt that we had a tremendous team of people working with us and for our son; including our live-in angel Terri who we will be forever grateful for. Even as we worked and focused our attention on building Austin’s skills, he continued to regress. After months of therapies, our team 26 suggested we get another evaluation done by a developmental pediatrician . Taking their suggestion, we scheduled the appointment with one of the referred developmental pediatricians. I think they knew…… we didn’t. Within a few weeks we met with the Developmental Pediatrician (the wait wasn’t near as long then) and within an hour of the meeting she gave us a new diagnosis of autism and mental retardation. Autism ……. What the hell do we do now? Sitting in the car before being able to start it, I held in my hand the one piece of information that the doctor gave us, a brochure for the Autism Society of America, and the advice to try and find a support group. I felt that we had been on a journey for some time, but it had been without real direction until Austin’s diagnosis. Although I felt a little relief that we had an actual diagnosis and direction, I also knew that we were playing in a new ballgame without the equipment we needed. That little brochure was the beginning of our search. After getting home that night, I sat down at the computer and typed in the word “AUTISM”, thus beginning our journey for Austin. We searched, we read, we studied, and we attended every conference that was within driving distance. The S.P.I.C.E. team seemed to be as eager as we were to find ways to reach him. They willingly tried new things, warned us against others, and fed us information about who we could contact within the community that might be of some help. From a seminar we attended, we learned about using pictures for communication and together with his speech pathologist Linda, we taught Austin that he had the power to communicate with us. I had found a support group and met a few parents. With them I felt a connection and understanding whenever I talked about autism; it was just a feeling of “They Get It”. I had also developed a passion for autism and wanted to do more for Austin and the other families struggling with a diagnosis. There was a lot of concern about the amount of time we had lost looking for autism specific information and didn’t want other families to lose that time . I compiled the notes I kept and wrote the first TRAIN resource book and soon after with other parents and professionals in the community founded the Autism Society of McLean County (*Autism McLean). 27 Through networking in the community while working on the resource