so terrifying to me. As a mom who has been in your shoes, I want to tell you to hold on tight, give yourself some grace, and, when someone offers to be your support, let them. Kira has done SO MANY things no one ever would have imagined she could do (attend sporting events and not lose her mind, learn foreign languages (yes, that’s plural), take college classes, go to high school dances, have a boyfriend she loves) and oh, the people who love Kira! They are too numerous to count, and some of them have been bit, hit, scratched, kicked, and all sorts of awful things that she did when she was younger that she has outgrown as an adult, and they STILL love her! Let me know how I can help. Kira's Favorite Joke "Here's a joke...why don't people eat clowns? ...........Because they taste funny!" It's the first joke she ever "got" and a turning point for her to understand teasing. She still doesn't like jokes she doesn't "get" or teasing, but she understands that some people love to tease/be teased even though she does NOT. 21 Nick’s Story I was asked to share Nick’s story and at first, I thought, what would I say? Then I thought, hmmm… maybe. Nick is 26 years old and had you asked me 23 years ago if we’d be where we are today, I’d have said absolutely no way. When I look at Nick now and think back to the little boy – I think, there is no way this is the same child. Nick came into the world perfectly normal and perfect in my eyes. He was beautiful and everything a parent prays for – 10 fingers, 10 toes, healthy heart, bright eyes – the whole package. He joined our family and made it complete. His big sister (all of 16 months older than him) seemed thrilled to have a baby doll that moved and made noise! Her fascination with him dropped off however when he learned to pull her hair and scratch her face – this was well before he was one. At first, I didn’t worry about him not sleeping through the night or not seeming to pay attention to us – he was happy for the most part and had the most infectious belly laugh! By the time he was two though, I found myself talking to other parents to find out if this or that was “normal”. He wasn’t talking – no words at all. He wasn’t sleeping for very long – 3 to 5 hours max. He didn’t seem interested in anything his family was doing – he seemed happy in his own bubble. And his anger was palpable when something didn’t go “right” – and right could be so many things – I didn’t understand what he wanted, his sister was within his grasp, his dad came home from work and altered the energy in the house. Any one of these would set him