communicate and visual schedules will help your child make sense of the world around him/her – once that happens your child will be readier to learn. Augie AAC  augie, now available on the Apple App Store, is an easy to use voice output augmented communication app for the iPad and iPad 2. augie serves anyone in need of a portable AAC solution that is specifically designed for functional communication. augie users recommend it for people of all ages in need of customized functional communication support. Behavior Tracker Pro  Behavior Tracker Pro is an iPhone/iPod Touch application that allows BCBAs, behavioral therapists, aides, teachers or parents to track behaviors and graph them. The application was specifically designed to support the behavioral treatment plans for children with autism. Birdhouse-for Autism  All parents need help staying organized, but parents of children with autism may have even greater needs. With Birdhouse, parents and caregivers can keep track of behavior, medical information, schedules, nutrition, and more. You can track your child’s diet and sleep cycles, too. The app also lets you track changes in their medication and notes from their therapy sessions as well. 110 Children with Autism: A Visual Schedule  This is a usefully customizable spin on visual timers, but the cool wearable version is accessible to very few students. ChoiceBoard Creator  ChoiceBoard Creator is the perfect app for creating customizable choice boards for the unique needs of individuals with communication challenges. It reinforces correct choice by expanding the selected image as well as playing the customized auditory rewards. Choiceworks  The Choiceworks app is an essential learning tool for helping children complete daily routines (morning, day, & night), understand & control their feelings and improve their waiting skills (taking turns and not interrupting). Based on the multi-award winning Choiceworks Visual Support System, this app is designed for caregivers to provide clear and consistent support to foster a child’s independence, positive behavior, and emotional regulation at home and in the community. Endless Reader  One of the first steps in learning to read is recognizing sight words, which are some of the most commonly used words in children’s books. Endless Reader begins here, teaching children the words most important in learning to develop reading skills. The app and first package of words are free! The app uses colorful monsters and fun sounds to keep users entertained and engaged. Fizz Brain: Quality Learning Games by Real Classroom Teachers  Developed specifically for children on the autism spectrum, these iPhone application games help children practice eye contact and expand their minds while earning fun rewards and playing creatively. FTVS HD-First Then Visual Schedule HD  This simple but powerful tool engages kids in independently following a schedule. 111 Grace Picture Exchange for Non-Verbal People  A simple picture exchange system developed By and For non-verbal people allowing the user to communicate their needs by building sentences from relevant images. It can be customized by the individual using their picture and photo