journey has been an amazing one, although not without difficulty, setbacks and frustrations. Austin’s siblings; Michael, Christina, and Amanda all carry the burden of having a brother with autism and the fact that he has always required so much focus and attention. Michael has developed a sense of pride in autism and his brother and wrote a book about him and his brother (Winner; Young Authors, Colene Hoose, 2005) . He has since graduated from the University of Illinois and supports children with disabilities in the High School. We have learned to accept that Austin’s disability is a part of who Austin is (it’s not like an attachment that you can get rid of). We’ve tried to utilize his fascinations to teach him and build on the things that he likes most. We do not lower our expectations for him. We treat him with the respect that he deserves and try to help him reach his full potential. Austin still faces many challenges in communication, social understanding, and the many other behaviors associated with autism, but the more his confidence increases and the better our understanding becomes, the more he is able to do on his own. I’m not sure I agree with the mental retardation diagnosis, I truly feel that much of his limitations is from a processing disorder, he struggles to understand what you are asking or telling him – but when phrased a different way, he generally gets it. We have met the most wonderful people since beginning this adventure and along the way created a much larger family. Our rewards may come slower than most peoples, but they mean so much more to us. Understand that your child is unique and the challenges you face will vary from day to day. You will have to pick and choose what areas get priority and what will work for your whole family. 29 I have included bits and pieces of information that have fit into our puzzle. I hope a few of them will fit into yours. I wish you all the best on your journey and I will look for you on the path as ours continues. All Big Things Start Small 30 On Your Journey  R emember, this is the same beautiful child you had yesterday, before you were given a diagnosis.  Y esterday you were a parent. Today you will start to become a researcher, a detective, and an educator. Most importantly you are still a parent.  S eek out knowledge. Contact other parents, speech pathologists, developmental therapists and doctors. Ask questions, lots of them!  Read at least one book by someone who has Autism, one book on how to help your child communicate, and one book that will make you laugh.  E ducate your family. Print out the “What Is Autism” from The Autism Society of America. Make copies and give them to extended family and friends.  H ave your child evaluated for underlying medical conditions i.e.... seizures,