child. Yea! 32  Find what motivates your child and use it. Do they like balloons?  Get a helium tank, use them for requesting, counting or colors. If they love Barney, Learn the songs, sing and dance with them.  Play hard, talk slow, be creative.  Introduce your child to as many social situations that they and you can tolerate. Be prepared to leave, while you are both still comfortable so that it is a successful experience.  React or Don’t. Try to step back and look at what you react to or don’t react to and how. Do you jump up, get animated, and yell when they suddenly decide to pour grape juice on the white carpet? Pretty good stimulus... (might want to try that again later). Do you sit quietly, reading or watching television when your child is calm? Maybe they’ll want to get the juice again.  Remember your spouse, your other children and your friends. Take time for them and for yourself.  Try to include siblings in your endeavors. Explain to them what their brother or sister has, teach them to be peer models if you can. Look into Sib shop support groups, they are designed to help your child understand their emotions and share experiences with other children in the same situation.  Tell your child what they have. Tell them that they are different than other children. Tell them that it’s o.k.  Remember that above all, you are your child’s best resource. Nobody knows them better than you do.  Create a positive behavior plan and stick with it  Don’t lower your expectations for your child, want for them the same things you want for all of your children; to grow up, be healthy, happy, and independent. 33 Autism Spectrum Disorder National Institute of Mental Health (NIH) What Is It? Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a developmental disorder that affects communication and behavior. Although autism can be diagnosed at any age, it is said to be a “developmental disorder” because symptoms generally appear in the first two years of life. According to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-5), a guide created by the American Psychiatric Association used to diagnose mental disorders, people with ASD have:  Difficulty with communication and interaction with other people  Restricted interests and repetitive behaviors  Symptoms that hurt the person’s ability to function properly in school, work, and other areas of life Autism is known as a “spectrum” disorder because there is wide variation in the type and severity of symptoms people experience. ASD occurs in all ethnic, racial, and economic groups. Although ASD can be a lifelong disorder, treatments and services can improve a person’s symptoms and ability to function. The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends that all children be screened for autism. All caregivers should talk to their doctor about ASD screening or evaluation. Signs and Symptoms of ASD People with ASD have difficulty with social communication and