off as would a host of unknown triggers. Sometimes he lashed out for the reaction and would then laugh at someone being hurt. I don’t think he put it together that way but that was the outward appearance. At a wellness check, I asked his pediatrician if he thought Nick might be hard of hearing. He said it was possible, so we went to an audiologist and he tested within normal range. Ok. That was good. But what then. Our pediatrician, nice enough fellow (now I think rather incompetent) said not to worry, that children develop at different paces and that Nick would find his way. Wait and see. Yikes. So back to talking to other parents. One mom told me about a program called SPICE (part of MarcFirst) and after putting him through several tests, they said they would provide therapy. Great! 22 Surely, they would be able to get his development ball rolling. Deep breath. After several weeks of therapy, they asked me if I had considered taking him to a developmental pediatrician for a diagnosis. For a what? Why? He was fine – just behind. Right? Apparently not. They said there was a good doctor in Peoria and a good team of doctors in Champaign (my hometown). Familiar territory and nine doctors to evaluate him. Nine was better than one. Right? So many doctors. So many tests. So many invasive tests. So much trauma to this little boy that would scream cry when he went to the doctor’s office. Who scream cried when anyone messed with him. Who hit, kicked, bit, pinched whoever he could reach when he couldn’t make them understand. Thankfully and finally, the testing was over. Nick, just barely two years old, was diagnosed with mild to moderate autism and mild retardation. They said he was at the developmental age of an 8-month-old. We were given many fliers and pamphlets to read and then sent on our way to navigate it, what felt like, all on our own. I felt beyond overwhelmed. I felt broken hearted that I had failed this beautiful little boy. I felt devastated and I was exhausted. And I had no idea where to go or what to do. I quickly found out two things. First, the very new internet was chuck full of information – some good, some lousy and some scary. At the time when you searched “autism” there were something like 2 million hits. Seriously? 2 million? How was I going to read that much material when my 2- and 3-year- olds kept me very busy? Second, I learned from SPICE and other parents, that Nick was entitled to services from our local school district, Unit 5 of McLean County. We went through the steps necessary to enroll Nick and he started school at the age of 3. For his first year or two, I was often in the classroom to help buffer Nick’s aggression towards other people – adults and children. He was what a friend