since stopped reading my What to Expect books because Kira was not hitting any of the milestones until much later dates than what was in that book. I called MarcFirst and asked them to test Kira for 16 EVERYTHING they had tests for, because, suddenly, I thought, “Oh my gosh, I should have done this a long time ago!” and was panicked that I had already failed my sweet girl. The tests came back and showed global delays in speech, gross motor, fine motor, and developmental and so began our journey in earnest, just four months before Kira’s sister, Haley, was born. Our days and weeks were filled with therapy sessions and trying not to freak out. The therapists came to our house after Haley was born, and as she got older, she joined in the sessions whenever she was allowed. It was watching Haley develop that it truly hit me how different she and Kira were. Haley seemed to do everything so fast. When Kira was two and a half years old, our team of therapists all met at my house for what felt like an intervention. They told me they wanted me to take Kira to a developmental pediatrician and I immediately burst into tears. No one wants to be told to go see a developmental pediatrician, because that means there is really something wrong; developmental pediatricians are doctors who specialize in things going wrong with kids. The doctor in Champaign was the first time I heard the word Autism to describe my daughter. The therapists were stunned and they disagreed with the diagnosis, as did our pediatrician. “She can point to things in isolation! She is so affectionate! She has a definite sense of humor! I’m confident she is reading!” they said, and, because of those things, they also said she couldn’t be on the spectrum. Autism scared Paul and I, so we chose to believe this group who had taught us so many ways to meaningfully engage with Kira and how she learns best instead of the developmental pediatrician, and started researching everything else it could be to determine what was going on with Kira. When she turned three, we made the hard decision to take Kira out of her church preschool program and enroll her in early childhood in Unit 5. It was hard because I was so afraid of putting a label of any kind on Kira, that it would somehow limit her opportunities and people would have low expectations of her. It was hard because it was special education, and what I remembered about special education from my own schooling experience was that the students in special education had a classroom that was underneath the stage. When I was a kid and we had classmates that were identified as needing special education services, we never saw them again, except before and after school. No one talked about it and my peers were not very nice to this population of students. I wanted something