County resident with a disability is eligible to register. The applicant must have previously been treated, or is currently being treated, for the condition qualifying them for the program. Persons wishing to be registered but are unable to do so based on their specific condition, may be registered by a legal guardian or court appointed caregiver. Parents may also register their children if they share a residence. Court documents detailing guardianship will be required with application.  McLean County residents wishing to register may do so by completing the registration form and agreement, which may be picked up at their local Police Department. Completed forms must then be submitted to the local Police Department. Police agencies receiving mailed applications will contact the applicant to verify the information provided. 117 Safety Trackers, I.D.’s & More Alerta Patch www.alertafamily.com Phone: 833.443.5799  Wearable Patch with alarm and receiver  Tracking system with chime Alexa www.amazon.com Not necessarily designed as a safety device, but has a lot of features that can be helpful in the home.  Ring Doorbell – let’s you see who is at the door and speak to them – helpful if your child might open the door for anyone.  Alexa show – utilizes alexa with a monitor – can be put in various rooms to monitor childs where-a-bouts  Alexa – can be used to talk room to room, great for simple check-ins in larger homes. Angel Sense Products www.angelsense.com Phone: 888.999.2023  Non-removal wearable products (requires parent key)  School Bus Tracking  GPS Tracking w/ Monthly service fees Angel Watch www.angelwatchco.com Phone: 888.787.4757  Built in GPS w/ monthly service fees  Angel Watch™ is your go-everywhere child-friendly communication tool just like a cellular phone, but without the dangers or distractions of one. 118 Apple Air Tag www.apple.com  A way to keep track of your stuff. Attach one to your keys, slip another in your backpack. And just like that, they’re on your radar in the Find My app, where you can also track down your Apple devices and keep up with friends and family.  No monthly fee The Autism Program of Illinois (Emergency Response Kit) https://tap-illinois.org/safety Phone: 217.953.0894 x 30476  Emergency kit includes emergency response window cling  Personal emergency information worksheet  A “what hurts” story board Autism and Risk Management https://autismriskmanagement.com/  Trainings by Dennis Debbaudt  Presentations and training for law enforcement  Links to other resources Big Red Safety Box https://nationalautismassociation.org/big-red-safety-box/ Phone: 877.622.2884 National Autism Association One Park Avenue Suite 1 Portsmouth, Rhode Island 02871  Box contains educational information and tools  Wireless door alarms  Visual Prompts  Road ID Bracelet or Shoe tag 119 CPR 4 EMI https://cpr4emi.godaddysites.com Facebook/CPR 4 Emi  First Responder training on how to work with individuals with autism  Family & Friends CPR Course  Heartsaver CPR & First Aid Course – student receives course completion card  Basic Life Support (BLS) Course, Heartsaver First Aid Course ICE Medical ID