something you must always remember. you are braver than you believe, stronger than you seem, and smarter than you think. but the most important thing is, even if we're apart. I'll always be with you.” ~ Winnie the Pooh 94 Newsletters and Magazines Autism Advocate Parenting Magazine www.autismadvocateparentingmagazine.com  Current Research  Expert Advice  Resources Autism Asperger Sensory Digest (AASD) https://autismdigest.com  Columns regarding traditional, alternative, and emerging therapies, products, and the best, up-to-date educational and latest scientific information! Inspiring articles, featuring books and other products, and regular columns authored by noted ASD professionals. Association for Science in Autism Treatment (ASAT) https://asatonline.org  Newsletter  Consumer Reviews  Media Watch  Treatment Summaries Autism Parenting Magazine www.autismparentingmagazine.com  Expert Advice  Sensory Issues Solutions  Transition Advice  Latest news, therapies, research etc. 95 Autism Spectrum News https://autismspectrumnews.org  Quarterly publication  Latest in scientific research, clinical treatment best practices, family issues, advocacy and vital community resources. Autism Spectrum Quarterly www.asquarterly.com  Latest news and development in autism treatments and care from all over the world.  In-depth research from scientists, therapists, adults, and experienced parents.  Advice regarding therapy for children, puberty blues for the teenage years, nutrition, and information regarding adult life, such as education, work, playtime etc. E-Parent Magazine www.eparent.com  Online multi-media company dedicated to be the ultimate resource for everything related to the special needs community.  Practical advice, emotional support, current trending news and educational information to empower caregivers and families of children and adults with disabilities and special healthcare need.  Advice regarding therapy for children, puberty blues for the teenage years, nutrition, and information regarding adult life, such as education, work, playtime etc. Exceptional Parent Magazine www.epmagazine.com  Financial Planning  Employment and Transition.  Navigating Disability Benefits 96 Illinois Clearinghouse https://eiclearinghouse.org/guides/autism/  Topical guide will introduce you to important books, videos, and information resources available from the EI Clearinghouse covering a wide variety of topics. Indiana Resource Center (IRCA Reporter-E Newsletter) https://eiclearinghouse.org/guides/autism/  Disseminates articles, workshop information and other news via this monthly email newsletter. The Reporter E-Newsletter is your connection to learning about the many resources IRCA offers. Outreach Magazine (SARRC) www.autismcenter.org/outreach-magazine  Produced annually to connect our community and raise awareness about autism. In addition to featuring stories about individuals impacted by autism, Outreach also delivers information about SARRC's research initiatives, community outreach, events and current news related to autism. Parenting Special Needs www.parentingspecialneeds.org  Free interactive multimedia online mobile friendly publication allowing you to listen to articles, read text and tips, watch videos online and connect via direct links.  Articles relevant to the real life of raising of a child with special needs are short and to the point. 97 Books INFORMATIONAL 30 Days of Autism Casey Chaffey All Cats Have Asperger Syndrome Kathy Hoopman Aspergirls: Empowering Females with Asperger’s Syndrome Rudy Simone The Autism Job Club Michael Bernick and Richard Holden Autism Spectrum Disorder: The Complete Guide to Understanding Autism Chantal Sicile-Kira The Autistic Brain: