book I met some amazing people at Illinois State University, Dr. Stacey Bock and Dr. Karla Doepke. They had the same passion for teaching children with autism as I did, along with the skills and resources I needed. By combining various techniques and teaching methods, along with our own knowledge of how to get into Austin’s world we were able to create a plan that has enabled Austin to make wonderful progress. When Austin was diagnosed at 2 ½ years of age he had many challenging behaviors, (much of it I believe was due to frustration of not being able to communicate effectively). He could not tolerate going to public places. He could not tell us what he wanted or needed. He had a lot of sensory issues that we didn’t understand. It was challenging and exhausting not knowing how to help him cope with everyday issues and anytime we faced a new situation with him. We spent hours sitting beside his bed to get him to stay in bed, it took nearly 2 years to teach him to stay in his room if he woke up. He was aggressive toward his twin brother, who for many years refused to fight back. He would lay and kick the walls and cry for hours. We set up a classroom in the basement and developed a team to work with him. We practiced going to many public places, i.e., department stores, bowling, the theatre, and on train rides. We practiced self-help skills constantly; asking for help when he needs it, cooking his own breakfast, crossing the street independently. He was not always successful and of course did/does better in some areas than he does others. I believe for him to be successful as an adult, we will have to continually introduce various environments and situations so he can build a tolerance and acceptance of them. With the support of so many exceptional people, Austin has made extraordinary progress. He is now learning to communicate much more effectively. He makes most of his wants and needs known verbally, including letting us know when he is sick and what hurts. At 25 years old, he has several friends and enjoys tons of activities in the community through SOAR and Autism McLean. He is able to relay information about past events (as far back as when he was 5 and couldn’t communicate). In 2018 we were making candles as a way to creatively pass time, there was some interest in purchasing them from a few friends so we started selling them locally. Soon after we started Smelly Elle Candles as a business for 28 Austin. Austin, aka the Candle Boss is involved in all aspects of the business. He sets wicks with hot glue, measures wax and fragrance oil, pours the hot wax, helps label, package and deliver. His Dad, Step-Dad and Brother all help in various ways too. We have been blessed to find something he loves doing and can be successful at. Our