now and then, when she is really frustrated and sad, she’ll ask for a social story so she can read what is going to happen next and how she could respond. Depending on the year, the teachers, and where Kira was developmentally, I had to fight for different things. Most times I advocated for full inclusion or as close as the school district would let us get to full inclusion, though, one year, I advocated for her spending more time in the self-contained classroom and volunteered to help that teacher bring the general education curriculum to Kira and her peers in that classroom. Most teachers and teams were at least willing to let me be part of the team and use my insights into Kira and thoughts from all my research to help problem-solve; Kira also had teachers who told me what they thought I wanted to hear (like, “she’s so sweet...”) and those who weren’t willing to be the detective to find out what she really learned and was capable of, and those who gave her inaccurate grades, both false As and false Fs. My unsolicited advice is to work with them; your child will benefit when you and the school use the same tools and language. Take every opportunity you have to partner with the people who are teaching and caring for your child, and when you feel like something is not right, advocate for your child. I ALWAYS had to fight Unit 5 transportation. From the time Kira was 3 years old in Early Childhood until we finally gave up and transported her ourselves for high school, she was picked up late, arrived at school late, and taken out of classes early to accommodate the bussing system, not what she and all of her peers with IEPs needed most - time in the classroom. Bussing was one of the most painful and unresolved fights I ever had. I don’t want that to be your takeaway, though. Take away that there were so many wonderful teachers, paraprofessionals, and administrators who learned a lot from Kira and some of them have become friends of our family and/or are Kira’s Facebook friends as an adult. Invest in your child’s teachers and the teams working with him/her. It has been quite an adventure, these past 24 years. There have been really great school experiences, and very awful ones. It’s hard knowing that every single year in school you, as your child’s best advocate, will have to teach a whole new team of people about your child and what autism looks like for 20 her. Then you remember your best friend telling you, “Kira gets ONE shot at ____ grade; fight for what you believe is right for her!” It’s hard to be 100% sure you are advocating for the correct things. I craved talking to parents of kids on the spectrum who were older than Kira. I wanted to know what the future could hold for her as it was all