https://theiceid.com  Personalized medical ID bracelet  he ICE ID simply communicates vital health + family contact information to first-responders in case of emergency / injury.  The ICE ID communicates for you when you cannot speak for yourself. iPhone www.apple.com  Good for older children  You can use “Guardian” to limit apps and screen time  Use Friends & Family tracking to see where your child is  Use Life 360 app to track your child  Use ICE to enter emergency contact information, along with medical information Safety First Products www.safety1st.com Phone: 800.544.1108  Locks and latches  Gates  Monitors  Products can be found in Target, Walmart, Amazon etc 120 State of Illinois Disability ID Card www.ilsos.gov/publications/pdf_publications/dsd_x164.pdf Phone: 800.252.8980  You can obtain the card from the Illinois Secretary of State . Although the State charges a fee for certain types of ID cards, there is no fee for the Disabled Person Identification Card.  The completed form requires a doctors signature to confirm the stated disability.  Completed forms may be dropped off at your local DMV office. Tot Locks https://protectenfant.com  The TotLock® Magnetic Locking System is the original magnetic lock that could be used to lock cabinet doors and drawers in any room, including the kitchen, the most dangerous room in any home. Secure cupboards and doors and help keep little ones safe from accidents. A magnetic "key" placed on the cabinet door releases the latch. When the magnet is removed, the latch springs back into the locked position. Other Items to consider Most can be found at your local hardware store  Child video and./or audio monitors  Door locks  Window locks  Door chimes  Shoelaces  Magnetic cabinet door latches  Safety/support animals Great things are not done by impulse, but by a series of small things brought together. ~Vincent Van Gogh 121 Miscellaneous Autism Friendly Businesses in McLean County This is not an all-inclusive list and will hopefully grow daily. The following businesses at the very least have Sensory Bags available for individuals with autism. The sensory bags help individuals who get too overwhelmed to go into stores, restaurants or other places people typically enjoy; have greater access to those places in the community Altitude Trampoline Park Bloomington Christian Fellowship Church Bloomington Public Library Carle-Bromenn Medical Center – Emergency Room Central Illinois Regional Airport Children’s Discovery Museum Chuck e Cheese Eastview Christian Church Faith Lutheran McLean County History Museum Miller Park Zoo Nexus Church Normal Public Library OSF Pediatrics OSF Behavioral Health on Forte Jesse SOAR Special Opportunities Available in Recreation Timber Pointe Outdoor Center Twin City Lanes Unitarian University Church Vale Church If you are a business or know of a business who would like a sensory bag, please have them contact Autism McLean at 309.661.9440 or info@autismmclean.org We would love to have more businesses join our Autism Friendly Community 122 Grief and Loss: Helping Children with Autism Cope Dealing with the death of a loved