a meal plan for a person with autism, especially if they want to try a limited diet. Such providers can help to make sure the child is still getting all the nutrients he or she needs to grow into a healthy adult, even while on the special diet, such as gluten-free or casein-free diets. 40 Parent-Mediated Therapy in Autism In parent-mediated therapy, parents learn therapy techniques from professionals and provide specific therapies to their own child. This approach gives children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) consistent reinforcement and training throughout the day. There are many types of therapies that parents can learn to do at home, including:  Discrete Trial  ABA  Joint attention therapy  Play Therapy  Floor Time  Social communication therapy  Picture Exchange Communication (PECS)  TEACCH  Relationship Development Intervention RDI  Sensory Integration Studies suggest that parent-mediated therapies might be able to improve the child's communication skills and interactions with others. 41 Social Skills Training/Interventions A lack of intuitive social ability is a hallmark of autism. Social skills training is aimed at addressing the challenges that result, and often plays a central role in treatment plans. (IAN Community Online) Types of Social Skills interventions might include:  Social Stories: are brief, personal stories written for children to help them understand social situations  Comic Strip Conversations: involve "drawing" conversations to help the child learn the social rules that others learn more naturally  Hidden Curriculum: These strategies involve directly teaching "unspoken" social rules  Social Skills Groups: These groups offer an opportunity for individuals with ASDs to practice social skills with each other and/or typical peers on a regular basis Speech-Language Therapy for Autism Speech-language therapy can help people with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) improve their abilities to communicate and interact with others. Verbal Skills : This type of therapy can help some people improve their spoken or verbal skills, such as:  Correctly naming people and things  Better explaining feelings and emotions  Using words and sentences better  Improving the rate and rhythm of speech Non-Verbal Communication: Speech-language therapy can also teach nonverbal communication skills, such as:  Using hand signals or sign language  Using picture symbols to communicate (Picture Exchange Communication System) 42 Diagnostic The Able Center www.theablecenter.com Phone: 309-661-8046 3011 North Village Office Place Ste C2 Champaign, IL 61801  Offers comprehensive neuropsychological evaluations and consultations to help you or your child launch to the next stage of development or adulthood. The Carle Clinic www.carle.org Phone: 217.383-3311 611 W Park St Urbana, IL 61801  The Carle pediatric team provides a multidisciplinary evaluation  Dr. Morton also sees patients in Bloomington/Normal on Friday’s Christie Clinic Champaign www.christieclinic.com/providers/502/Joseph-Keeley-MD/provider Phone: 217.366.1257 1801 W Windsor Rd Champaign, IL 61822  The Department of Pediatrics, Dr. Keeley evaluates and treats children with a variety of developmental problems including ADHD, and autistic spectrum disorders 43 Easter Seals www.easterseals.com/ci Phone: 217.383-3311 2404 E Empire St Bloomington, IL 61704  Provides services to