of this article can be found at: www.wrightslaw.com 78 Least Restrictive Environment (LRE) In implementing IDEA’s LRE provisions, the general education classroom in the school the student would attend if not disabled, is the first placement option considered for each student with a disability, before a more restrictive placement is considered. If the IEP of a student with a disability can be implemented satisfactorily with the provision of supplementary aids and services in the general education classroom in the school the student would attend if not disabled, that placement is the LRE placement for the student. However, if the student’s IEP cannot be implemented satisfactorily in that environment, with the provision of supplementary aids and services in the general education classroom in the school the student would attend if not disabled, is not the LRE placement for that student. Placement decisions are to be determined by the services the child needs. Cost or administrative convenience, are not the force that determines the placement of the child. It is the duty of the Team to determine the most appropriate placement, considering the opportunities and appropriateness of being educated with similar- aged non-disabled peers. Life is trying things to see if they work. ~Ray Bradbury 79 Extended School Year (ESY) During the annual review the team will make a determination of the need for Extended School Year Services. ESY is in essence, a continuation or extension of the prior year’s IEP. ESY services may consist of all academics with related services, i.e., speech. Should the team deem ESY appropriate, services should be delivered in the same placement option as was done in the regular school year. IEP Teams should consider the following factors in making ESY decisions:  Regression and recoupment in the Fall  Degree of progress toward IEP goals  Emerging skills/breakthrough opportunities  Interfering behavior  Nature and/or severity of disability  Availability of alternative resources  Areas of curriculum that need continuous attention  Vocational needs The difficulty lies not so much in developing new ideas as in escaping from old ones ~ John Maynard Keynes 80 7 Areas for Consideration In the development of the Individualized Education Program (IEP) for a student on the autism spectrum (which includes autistic disorder, Asperger's disorder, pervasive developmental disorder not otherwise specified, childhood disintegrative disorder, and Rett Syndrome, as defined in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, fourth edition (DSM-IV, 2000)), the IEP team shall consider all of the following factors: 1. The verbal and nonverbal communication needs of the child. 2. The need to develop social interaction skills and proficiencies. 3. The needs resulting from the child's unusual responses to sensory experiences. 4. The needs resulting from resistance to environmental change or change in daily routines. 5. The needs resulting from engagement in repetitive activities and stereotyped movements. 6. The need for any positive behavioral interventions, strategies, and supports to address any behavioral difficulties resulting from autism spectrum disorder. 7. Other needs resulting from the child's disability that