different for Kira. I didn’t know exactly what that was, but 17 it wasn’t THIS. Early childhood education was simultaneously wonderful and hard at the same time. I felt like Kira was very well cared for in her program, but some of the behaviors of her classmates made me very nervous. Would Kira start quacking like one of her classmates? She already had a tendency for aggressive behavior when frustrated and there were students who had much more aggressive behaviors than she; would she pick up their behaviors? I wanted her to have typical peer role models and for her to “pick up” on their behaviors. Don’t get me wrong, Kira had plenty of her own concerning behaviors; we knew how to deal with those, though, not the ones I saw of some of her classmates. “Different, not less,” as Temple Grandin says, is how I felt about the array of behaviors in her classroom. We had a series of events ranging from changing insurance companies to doctors retiring that had us running all over the place trying to find out what was going on with Kira. At one point, we were in St. Louis, the head of neurology told us “Stop shopping for a diagnosis.” He used the R-word to describe our smart and beautiful daughter, telling us she would never have the mental capacity of more than an elementary student. He said this in front of Kira and Haley. We were devastated and couldn’t even talk to each other until the car ride home when the girls fell asleep, exhausted. I was determined that Kira would prove that jerk wrong, no matter what. When Kira was four years old, she started having quiet seizures. We didn’t know that at the time, but she would stop walking and sit down and then be very angry. She fell down the stairs a couple of times and then, one night at bathtime, I watched her take two shoulder shrugs and melt under the water. I grabbed her out of the bathtub, got her dressed, and we all went to the emergency room. They told us they suspected she was having seizures and made a follow-up visit for us to see a pediatric neurologist. At that appointment, that doctor kept saying, “Well, in my other patients with PDD- NOS…” and “My other patients with Autism…” until I finally said, “why do you keep saying that? You act like she has Autism. The doctor said, calmly, “you don’t know? It says so right here in her chart.” That night, I went to the bookstore and stood in front of the Special Needs section and pulled out a book from a mother who put her son on a gluten-free/casein free diet and “cured” his autism. I wasn’t sure about the diet, but the description of the 18 boy in the book spoke to me; he very much resembled Kira. So, I bought the book and started researching the diet. Paul and I finally embraced