allergies, hearing problems. Many times underlying conditions can be treated. If your child feels well their ability to concentrate and learn will be easier.  There are no known cures for Autistic Spectrum Disorder. This is a lifelong disability. Be very cautious of any treatment or therapy that promises a cure or promotes its miracle cases. Our children are each unique individuals, one size does not fit all. You will find a tremendous amount of therapy options available. If you consider trying any of them, be sure to research them thoroughly. Find out what the long term effects can be for your child. Talk to at least two other parents that have went through the treatment with their child, and always ask questions.  F ind a doctor who will listen and research with you. This might be much harder than you think.  K eep records. Start a file for doctor visits, therapies, research papers, school IEP’s and contracts.  K now your rights and the rights of your child. 31  T ake a break! You will be doing your child, your family and yourself a service. Look into respite services.  You will need people to turn to for help, answers or just to talk. Build a support group of family, friends, other parents and educators. Work together as a team  B elieve! If you don’t believe in yourself, you won’t be able to make your child believe in you.  C hildren with Autism can learn. C hildren with Autism can love.  Find a way to help your child communicate. A speech pathologist can help you find different forms of communications. Remember even if your child is not verbal, if they can learn to express themselves through pictures or sign language they are communicating. Communication is power... Power builds confidence... with confidence you and your child can accomplish most anything.  Don’t assume your child is locked in a dark, miserable world. Assume instead that the world they’re in is more like a circus (why leave when you’re having a great time). Be animated and silly, try to make yourself the most interesting thing in your child’s life. Catch their attention enough for them to want to take a peak.  Don’t take away the things they love. If it’s spinning...spin with them, if it’s dark quiet places they like... build them a tent and join them in it. Let them know that you love them for who they are, and build on it.  Everything your child does is for a reason. Be a detective, watch for the causes and effect. Does your child scream when you run the vacuum? Maybe they have a sound sensitivity and the noise is painful. Do they throw themselves on the floor or push furniture over? They could be hypo-sensitive to touch. Keep notes.  Cheer! For every accomplishment. It may seem like a small step for some, but it might be a giant leap for your