interaction, restricted interests, and repetitive behaviors. The list below gives some examples of the types of behaviors that are seen in people diagnosed with ASD. Not all people with ASD will show all behaviors, but most will show several. Social communication / interaction behaviors may include:  Making little or inconsistent eye contact  Tending not to look at or listen to people  Rarely sharing enjoyment of objects or activities by pointing or showing things to others 34  Failing to, or being slow to, respond to someone calling their name or to other verbal attempts to gain attention  Having difficulties with the back and forth of conversation  Often talking at length about a favorite subject without noticing that others are not interested or without giving others a chance to respond  Having facial expressions, movements, and gestures that do not match what is being said  Having an unusual tone of voice that may sound sing-song or flat and robot- like  Having trouble understanding another person’s point of view or being unable to predict or understand other people’s actions Restrictive / repetitive behaviors may include:  Repeating certain behaviors or having unusual behaviors. For example, repeating words or phrases, a behavior called echolalia  Having a lasting intense interest in certain topics, such as numbers, details, or facts  Having overly focused interests, such as with moving objects or parts of objects  Getting upset by slight changes in a routine  Being more or less sensitive than other people to sensory input, such as light, noise, clothing, or temperature  People with ASD may also experience sleep problems and irritability. Although people with ASD experience many challenges, they may also have many strengths, including:  Being able to learn things in detail and remember information for long periods of time  Being strong visual and auditory learners  Excelling in math, science, music, or art 35 Causes and Risk Factors While scientists don’t know the exact causes of ASD, research suggests that genes can act together with influences from the environment to affect development in ways that lead to ASD. Although scientists are still trying to understand why some people develop ASD and others don’t, some risk factors include:  Having a sibling with ASD  Having older parents  Having certain genetic conditions—people with conditions such as Down syndrome, fragile X syndrome, and Rett syndrome are more likely than others to have ASD  Very low birth weight Everyone is Unique Every person with autism is an individual, and like all individuals, has a unique personality and combination of characteristics. There are great differences among people with autism. Some individuals mildly affected may exhibit only slight delays in language and greater challenges with social interactions. The person may have difficulty initiating and/or maintaining a conversation, or keeping a conversation going. People with autism process and respond to information in unique ways. Educators and other service providers must consider the unique pattern of learning