options. I have included little of our family and couple of other family’s stories. I thought about how much it would have meant to me to have had the experience of another family as a reference when we first started and although our stories will be vastly different than yours I think it may help you to realize that this diagnosis is only the beginning for you and your child. 15 Kira’s Story (Dees Family) Before I start our Autism story, I want you to know everything will be OK. Yes, some things will be very hard, but it will all be OK. Take a deep breath, now another one (don’t you feel a little better already?), and commit to doing everything in your power to be a detective when it comes to your child. Remember that all behavior is communication; we just have to figure out what our kids (ALL kids) are communicating to us with their behavior. You will hear a lot of stories, do a lot of research, and will find out about all sorts of other people on the Autism Spectrum. The most important piece of information you have is your gut and your knowledge of your child. Always remember that your child is not like every other person on the spectrum; some stories will resonate with you and others will not feel familiar at all. It’s called a spectrum for a reason. There will be all sorts of experts (doctors, teachers, specialists, etc.) who know a whole lot about Autism. However, you will always be the best expert on your child. Be open to new learning, work with the team who is trying to help you, and do your darndest to listen to your child and discover who he/she is first and foremost. At our well-baby checks, the pediatrician proclaimed, “Kira’s perfect! “and it felt so good to hear those words! We heard those glorious word until, until she was 8 months old and had not started crawling (she didn’t crawl until 10 months old). Then we started hearing, “She’s fine; she’s just on the low side of normal.” When she wasn’t walking independently at 15 months (she would walk a city block holding on to just a finger), the pediatrician said, “well, I will sign off on physical therapy if you want.” So, we signed up for physical therapy and, when she still wasn’t walking independently at 18 months, our insurance company indicated they would no longer pay for physical therapy. Coincidentally, Kira suddenly lost nearly all of her language at 18 months, stopped making eye-contact and started drooling. Just when Paul and I were asking ourselves, “now what?” Our physical therapist brought us a pamphlet for SPICE through MarcFirst and said, “I’m not really sure what this place is, but they will test Kira for any and all delays and, if she qualifies, they will give you services at low/no cost.” This is when I started to get very nervous. I had long