growth for those who touch the lives of young children, ages birth through eight, with an emphasis on children with special needs We dance to a song of heartbreak and hope, all the while wondering if somewhere and somehow, there is someone searching for us." ~The Wonder Years 91 Future Planning Future planning is one very important and often complicated issue that parents confront when they have a son or daughter with any type of disability: How to plan their estate to best provide for their child's future security. Parents may ask themselves:  " What will our son or daughter do when we are no longer here to provide help when it's needed? "  " Where — and how — will our child live? "  " Will he or she have enough money to sustain a decent quality of life? " These are complex questions and difficult ones to answer. When a child has a disability, you are going to have concerns about their future. As parents, you may have a tentative plan in the back of your minds that one day, in the near or distant future, you will write a will that leaves your son or daughter with a disability sufficient resources to make his or her life secure. Many of you may have already written such a will. Yet there are many things to know and consider when planning your estate. Finding the people who have experience in future planning is very important. The understand and can explain third party trusts, SSDI asset limits, ABLE accounts, Guardianship and more Remember that future planning also means writing up a plan about and for your child/adult – it can include things like calming strategies, likes, dislikes, preferred foods and schedules. All of the things that you do naturally can be written down to help others make life the best it can be for your loved one. We are what we repeatedly do. Excellence, then, is not an act, but a habit. ~ Aristotle 92 Special Needs Alliance www.specialneedsalliance.org  National Alliance of Attorneys for Special Needs Planning  Search by state Todd Bugg www.bugglawoffice.com Phone: 309-386.1884 2205 E Empire St. Suite K Bloomington, Illinois 61704  Estate Planning and Business Attorney. J ulia D avis L aw F irm www.juliadavislaw.com Phone: 309.661.1104 409 S. Prospect, Suite F Bloomington, IL 61704  Estate Planning, Special Needs Trust, Guardianship Clancy & Associates www.clancyassociates.com 773-929-9000 901 Warrenville Road, Suite 201 Lisle, Illinois 60532  Special needs planning and trusts  Transition Planning  IEP / Education  Guardianship 93 Brian Rubin Benjamin A. Rubin, Esq., LLM www.rubinlaw.com Phone: 847.279.0090 1110 W Lake Cook Road Suite 165 Buffalo Grove, IL 60089-1997  Legal and future planning for our fellow Illinois families of individuals with special needs, including intellectual disabilities, developmental disabilities, physical disabilities, and/or mental illness  Brian and Benjamin Rubin are available to speak to groups and organizations If ever there is tomorrow when we're not together, there is