(also a professional in the field) would come to call, “their 3-on-1 child”. It routinely took 3 adults to contain my son, to keep him from hurting other children or staff. He was kicked out of summer school for hurting a fellow classmate when he was not yet 4 – this felt like my breaking point. I knew he needed so much more than I was providing. He needed school – the structure at least. I needed to learn more, to be a better advocate for Nick. I joined Autism McLean, I volunteered to be on a Unit 5 parent/professional Autism council, I 23 attended any symposium I could find, I joined support groups. I learned to come out of my shell so to speak as I realized that my kids needed me to speak up for them. Speaking up and asking for help have always been hard for me. Top that off with not understanding a word of the teachers’ secret language of acronyms I always felt behind when it came to my son’s education. Over time, I developed close relationships with professionals in the field who would attend Nick’s IEPs with me (strongly recommend having a support person with you during these – those extra ears, those extra minds are invaluable). They taught me the importance of routines, of social stories, of communication (and learning the various modes). They helped me help my son – I’m forever grateful. Nick has been blessed with so many amazing teachers! There were a few that muddied the waters, but the vast majority worked hard to help Nick learn to communicate. They thought outside the box and worked hard to make Nick’s experiences meaningful to him. He found speech (functional echolalia) around 5 years old – something he still uses today when needed. He wore headphones to filter out all the sounds that hurt him or confused him. He learned to use schedules and PECS and social stories – he even learned to create them himself when we got Boardmaker – a perfect example of self-advocacy – he knew what he needed and how to create it! Every school year was a new test of his determination, his courage. He tried new things (although often times with a lot of complaining and behaviors) but his teachers stood by him, encouraged him, and believed in him. Over time, he figured out how to navigate the world, to make friends, to accomplish just about anything he wanted. He graduated from high school at 20 and went to community college where he earned a certificate in business technology. He got himself to campus, through the day and back home every day. It may have taken him longer than typical, but he did it and is so excited at the prospect of finding a job and being a businessman! Nick is also blessed to be a part of Autism McLean, SOAR, Miracle League and Best Buddies of ISU. Each of these organizations have been so important