support for their families.  Networks with other community organizations to be able to provide resources to families  Family outings and recreational opportunities  Sports skills camps-ongoing seasonal programs  Recreational and Educational Stipends  Getting Started Kits for families with a new diagnosis  Sensory Bags to families and businesses to help individuals with sensory issues gain access to the community  Nicks Friends Gang – organized by an individual with autism Autism Friendly Community https://autismfriendly.community  Autism Friendly Community (AFC) is Autism McLean’s community outreach program— helping McLean County to be truly autism - -friendly: one business, one organization, one person at a time! We partner with local businesses, organizations and individuals to expand awareness and inclusion.  Six Aspirations to becoming an Autism Friendly Community *Welcome Me *Learn with Me *A Place for Me * Wellness for Me *Work with Me * Recreation for Me  Visit the Autism Friendly Community website to complete the survey and see what else you can do 58 Best Buddies www.bestbuddies.org/illinois Phone: 312.828.9313 Central Illinois Office of Best Buddies 7800 N Sommer St Peoria, IL 61615  Creates opportunities for one-to-one friendships, integrated employment, leadership development, and inclusive living for individuals with intellectual and developmental disabilities (IDD). Friends First/Marcfirst www.marcfirst.org/friendsfirst Phone: 309.454.8888 1606 Hunt Drive Normal, IL 61761  Gives people the opportunity to learn new skills, share talents and foster independence.  Activities include gardening, music, arts and crafts, lessons related to overall well-being The HEAL Foundation (Heroes Embracing Autistic Lives) www.jonsheroes.org/ 309.663.6946  Heroes Embracing Autistic Lives founded by Jon Miskulin (age 18) Bloomington, IL  This is an opportunity for children with ASD to receive high quality physical education from teacher candidates enrolled in an Adapted Physical Education class at Illinois State University. 59 The Miracle League of Central Illinois https://miracleleagueci.com Phone: 309.275.5956 421 Kays Drive Normal, IL 61761  Provides physically and mentally challenged children a safe and spirited program in which they can play on a baseball field just like other kids. Miracle League baseball offers a unique and memorable opportunity these children would not otherwise have. Normal Public Library - Contra Dance www.normalpl.org/contra-dance-workshops Phone: 309.452.1757 206 W College Avenue Normal, IL 61761  Contra dancing is a wonderful opportunity to socialize with others. It is easily accommodated for people with ASD or other social/sensory issues. You can participate without needing to talk, touch or make eye contact, unless you want to. The dance is a repetition of various patterns that are walked and no partner is necessary. The Penguin Project of McLean County www.penguinprojectmclean.org penguinprojectmclean@gmail.com  Once a year, a magical and touching celebration of the human spirit unfolds at U-High's Stroud Auditorium in Normal, Illinois. A group of young people in a program called The Penguin Project® McLean County take to the stage to perform a modified version of a well-known Broadway musical.  The roles are filled by children and young adults with developmental disabilities and are joined on stage by their